Number Category Short description Article body KB0014345 Academics Academics - REGIS (Rutgers Electronic Grading and Information System) "

The Rutgers Electronic Grading and Information System, also known as REGIS, is the online grading system used by faculty to submit grades.

Accessing Regis

To access REGIS, the user must have a Faculty, Staff, or Guest role; users will sign in to the system with their NetID and password. If users cannot view Class Rosters, verify their role in OpenRegistry. If they have an active Faculty, Staff, or Guest role, you should refer the user to their department chairs, as access has to be granted from the chair.

Task Specific Requests

Step-by-step documentation can be found on the REGIS Quick Reference Guide for calls regarding the following actions:

Viewing a roster
Adding students to a roster
Download and upload a roster
Granting/revoking privileges
Submitting warnings or grades
Downloading Rosters as Spreadsheets

REGIS users can download spreadsheets of their rosters. If someone reports problems with the downloaded spreadsheet (for example, the file is grayed out or blank), suggest the caller add https://sims.rutgers.edu as a trusted site in their browser settings and try again.

" KB0014167 Academics Academics - Transcripts & Grades "

Enrolled Students

Enrolled students (with a source of record in SRDB) can view their grades on their unofficial transcript through the Unofficial Transcripts and Grades site. Unofficial transcripts may be printed by selecting Print Full Transcript in the upper right-hand corner.

Enrolled students (with a source of record in SRDB) can view their grades through myRutgers Portal.

To view your grades:

Login to MyRutgers and navigate to Dashboard.

Navigate to My Grades.

To view your grades, select the desired year in the dropdown menu on the upper left-hand corner of the widget.

Alumni or Former or Non-enrolled Students

Alumni or Former students can obtain their transcripts at the Transcript/Enrollment Certification & Term Grade Report System site.

Alumni or Former students can also obtain their transcripts by contacting the Registrar's Office at 848-445-4636 for assistance.

Students who are not registered for classes during the semester cannot view their transcripts or grades online.

RBHS Students

Current RBHS students (with a source of record in Banner) can view their transcripts through the Banner app in the myRutgers Portal.

Note: RBHS students may view their unofficial transcripts through Banner, however, they cannot print them.

To obtain a printed copy, they should contact their respective registrar.

Contact information for RBHS registrars.

For reference: Tutorial: How To View Your Unofficial Transcript.

Response Template

Hello NAME,

Thank you for contacting the OIT Help Desk. [I apologize for the delay in replying to your email. The volume of mail we receive has kept me from getting to your message until today.]

As an Alumni, a NetID/Password is not required to access the transcripts. You can retrieve your official transcript at (transcripts.rutgers.edu). Please select Alumni/Former Students under All Rutgers Students section and enter the required information. As a reminder, there will be a payment fee of $7 per paper transcript, and $10 per electronic transcript. If you request more than 2 Paper Transcripts there is a payment fee of $7 for each additional Paper Transcript.

For further assistance, please contact One Stop Student Services with the following contact information: (Choose One)

New Brunswick

Office Location: Dr. Samuel Dewitt Proctor Hall Busch Campus 65 Davidson Road Piscataway, NJ 08854

Hours of Operation:

Monday-Thursday: 8:30 am-4:30pm

Friday: 11:00 am-4:30pm

Phone Number: (848) 445-4636 (INFO)

Form: https://rutgers.force.com/OneStopPortal/s/New-Brunswick

Newark

Office Location: Blumenthal Hall, 3rd Floor 249 University Avenue Newark, NJ 07102

Hours of Operation:

Monday-Thursday: 8:30 am-4:30pm

Friday: 11:00 am-4:30pm

Phone Number: (848) 445-4636 (INFO)

Form: https://rutgers.force.com/OneStopPortal/s/Newark

Camden

Office Location: Armitage Hall 311 N 5th Street Camden, NJ 08102

Hours of Operation:

Monday-Thursday: 8:30 am-4:30pm

Friday: 11:00 am-4:30pm

Phone Number: (848) 445-4636 (INFO)

Form: https://rutgers.force.com/OneStopPortal/s/Camden

Your incident number is [INC]. Your issue has been marked as resolved, but it has not been closed. If you are still encountering issues regarding this incident, call the OIT Help Desk at 833-OIT-HELP (648-4357) or visit the Rutgers IT Help Portal: https://ithelp.rutgers.edu/. If you are not encountering any more issues, your response is not required, and this incident will close automatically in 5 days.

Best,
NAME
OIT Help Desk
833-OIT-HELP (648-4357)

" KB0014102 Accounting Accounting - 1098T Form "

Students looking for their 1098T tax forms can find them on the 1098T Tax Statement website. Users will need to input their NetID and password in order to log in.

If the user is a former student (Inactive Student role or Alumni role), please direct them to contact their respective OneStop Registrar Office.

" KB0014101 Accounting Accounting - Rutgers Refunds "

To access student refunds:

Navigate to the Rutgers Term Bill.
Select NetID Login.
Log in with NetID and password.
Under Electronic Refunds, select ACH electronic deposit portal.

This opens the Rutgers Legacy Refund Page which is used to view and manage student refunds.

" KB0014103 Admissions Admissions - Class Registration "

Non-RBHS Students

Students can use their NetIDs and the case-sensitive passwords associated with those accounts to use the Web-based class scheduling system (WebReg). If they are trying to register for classes, they can also authenticate with their RUID numbers and PACs, usually their birth months and day (e.g., January 2 would be 0102). If they do not remember their PAC or wish to reset it, they can do so with their NetID/password or contact OneStop for assistance.

If the user tries to log into WebReg too many times unsuccessfully, they will be locked out of the system. The lock will be removed automatically in 24 hours. If they would like the lock removed sooner, they may contact OneStop for assistance and request it is removed.

If the user is a returning student interested in registering for classes for the Fall or Spring semester and does not have a role, they must contact their Dean to reinstate their role before they can register for classes.

During busy times (Fall, Spring, and Summer registration periods), users may find that the page will not load or it seems to load continuously for long periods. This is just a result of many users trying to access the system simultaneously. If a user calls up with this issue, tell them to wait and try again, explaining that many users are trying to access the page simultaneously. Additionally, users may find that after registering for their classes, the classes do not show up on their registered courses or under view/print schedule. Note that the courses should appear if the user logs out of webreg and logs back in.

RBHS Students

RBHS Student do not use WebReg to register for classes. They log in via the myRutgers portal and use the PIN provided to them by their advisor (who receives the PIN from the office of enrollment) to register for classes. If a user is unable to use their PIN and basic troubleshooting is unable to resolve the issue, direct the user to their advisor and/or their registrar.

" KB0014104 Admissions Admissions - College to College Transfers "

College-to-college (or school-to-school) transfers refer to currently enrolled Rutgers undergraduate students who wish to switch from one school or college within Rutgers University. This is separate from transferring between a non-Rutgers institution into Rutgers or transferring from a Rutgers institution into a non-Rutgers institution.


The following eligibility includes:

Transferring between Camden, Newark, or New Brunswick.
Transferring from one of the professional schools to a liberal arts school or from a liberal arts school to a professional school.

The application website is: School-to-School Transfer Application.

More information regarding school-to-school transfers can be located at the Undergraduate Transfer Portal.

" KB0014105 Admissions Admissions - Degree Navigator "

Access Overview
Undergraduate Students and Advisors
Degree Navigator is available exclusively for undergraduate students and Degree Navigator Advisors.
Graduate students do not have access to Degree Navigator.
Website Usage:
Both students and Degree Navigator Advisors use the same Degree Navigator website.
The platform is consistent across New Brunswick, Camden, and Newark campuses.
Eligibility and Access Instructions
Registered Students
Students currently registered for classes or those who have registered within the past two years may access Degree Navigator by logging in with their NetID and password.
Only degree-seeking students can view their past classes as applied to a degree program. Non-matriculating students can see their completed classes, but unless the class is from the current semester, it will not appear under a chosen degree.
Faculty Access
Faculty with Degree Navigator Advisor access must log in via the main Degree Navigator page by navigating to Advisor Login.
Advisors should navigate to nbdn.rutgers.edu and select Advisor Login, rather than using dn.rutgers.edu.
Data Refresh and Updates
Data Updates
Degree Navigator data refreshes every Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday at approximately 4:00 AM.
If a grade update is not reflected, confirm whether enough time has passed since the last system refresh.
Grade Change Alerts
Students receive grade change email alerts within 24 hours but these updates refer to online transcripts, not Degree Navigator.
Troubleshooting and Support
Please note: Degree Navigator is unavailable from 8:30am-8:45am every day for system maintenance.
If a user cannot access the site during this time, please have them refresh the page after the hours listed have passed and see if they are still experiencing the issue.
Faculty Issues
Faculty without current Degree Navigator Advisor access or those unable to view specific classes should contact Degree Navigator support directly.
Contact information and additional resources are available on the Degree Navigator website.

" KB0014106 Admissions Admissions - Emergency Contact Information & Housing Site "

In order for someone with an A-number in OpenRegistry to access their Emergency Contact information or Housing Assignment information via the Residence Life Portal, the Residence Life Assignments office must be contacted for assistance with properly updating the ResLife Database to reflect an RBHS affiliation for such a person.

Housing Application process:

They rely on LDAP to allow the student to log in to the housing site.
Housing maintains their own database to determine the type of student logging in; they have their own codes for each type of student (new transfer, incoming freshman, etc.), which then determines if the student is eligible to apply for housing.
As far as RBHS (phi=y) students are concerned, RBHS relies on A-numbers as their primary identifier.
Housing is currently working on getting those numbers brought over, but as it currently stands, there is no process in place that automatically dumps that information. It is a MANUAL process, either manually dumped or manually built.
This means RBHS students (phi=y) will not be able to apply for housing until housing has their A-number in place.

First-year/admitted students must fill out their Emergency Contact information on the enrollment pathway. There are two separate links to update that information: one for Admissions and the other for Residential Life. Students with an Admit Coming role in OpenRegistry rather than a Student role will only be able to use the Residential Life link under the Housing and Dining section to update this information.

Please be aware that it takes 3-5 days AFTER the user has paid their admissions fee to log into the housing/dining website. If it has been over five days and they still can't log in, refer them to ResLife Assignments. DO NOT direct the user to Housing.

Method 1

Below are the general steps of the first-year housing application process, where this link is located:

Students will visit myRutgers and select the housing and dining link.
Students are then informed that they *must* sign up for their Rutgers NetID before proceeding to the housing link (they cannot log in with their RUID and PIN).
After giving this information, the Enrollment Pathway takes the student to the Housing Application website.
Students will log into the site and be brought to the Student Home Page.
At this point, they will see the housing application link at the bottom of the page.
Important: The first time they click on the link, it informs them they *must* add an emergency contact before proceeding.
Students will then select the My Emergency Contacts link on the left side of the screen.
Once they add an emergency contact, they will be directed back to the Student Home Page where they can now fill out the application.
Method 2

To update the Emergency Contact Information:

Log in to myRutgers and navigate to the Apps tab.
Utilize the Search Apps tool in the upper right-hand corner.
Search and select Emergency Contacts.
You will be redirected to an external page.

If the user continues to have a problem, refer them to the following:
Residence Life Assignments Office
Davidson Hall 90 Davidson Road, Piscataway, NJ 08854
Phone: 848-445-0750

" KB0014108 Admissions Admissions - Health Insurance "

Users who have questions regarding student health insurance can contact University Finance and Administration. The contact information for the users' questions can be found in the Student Health Insurance Policy outlined by University Finance and Administration. Tickets regarding student health insurance should be made in the NB-HD general queue.

" KB0014109 Admissions Admissions - Login & Fee Payment Issues "

Fee Issues

If they are trying to pay fees, find out which fee:

Application fee
Enrollment fee (for undergrads only)

Both Application and Enrollment fees can be paid from the application status site.

Admission Site Issues

For issues with login credentials to the admissions site:

Navigate to Admissions Login and select CommunityID under Already have a Rutgers CommunityID?
Login with the email address and password that was configured when applying.
If the user has forgotten their password, they must either select Forgot your password? below the password field or navigate to Password Reset to reset their password.
An email will be sent to the user with password reset information. If the user does not see the email, have them check their junk/spam folders.

" KB0014380 Admissions Admissions - Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) Site "

Rutgers University applicants can use the Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) site to submit additional academic records to supplement their applications.

Applicants can use the tool to self-report coursework, grades, GPA, and other academic information. High school seniors are required to complete the SRAR, while high school graduates and transfer students are not.

Users who have already completed the SRAR with another participating college or university may use their existing SRAR account to log into the Rutgers SRAR. Users without an existing SRAR account should click Create SRAR Account and follow the instructions on screen. Users should use the same email address they used or plan to use to complete the Rutgers Application. Users who will be utilizing this tool will not have a Rutgers NetID and password, and will not be in our system yet as they are only applying to the University.

If the user forgot their password, they can select Forgot Password? that allows them to retrieve the password with their name and relevant email address.

Beyond that, there is not much we can do to assist the user with logging in to the site as this is not a tool or database that we run. They can contact University Undergraduate Admissions for further assistance at 732-445-3777.

" KB0018579 AI AI - ChatGPT "

Table of Contents
Who can purchase a ChatGPT Edu License?
What are the benefits of ChatGPT Edu?
Why must users switch to the Rutgers ChatGPT Edu license?
FAQ
What if a department previously purchased ChatGPT licenses?
Should a department purchase subscriptions for ChatGPT?
What do departments need to do?
How will departments be charged?
Does the ChatGPT Edu license include access to Sora?
Can I purchase ChatGPT via a term subscription?
Can I migrate or merge my ChatGPT Free or Plus workspace over to my ChatGPT Edu subscription?
Can I license ChatGPT Pro or the ChatGPT API through the Software Portal?
What support is available for ChatGPT Edu licenses?

ChatGPT Edu licenses are available on the Software Portal. This version of the AI assistant from OpenAI includes higher message limits than the free version and allows users to build and share custom GPTs (the large language models developed by OpenAI). Using ChatGPT Edu also prevents Rutgers data and conversations from being used to train the company s AI models.

Any user with an individual or departmental ChatGPT license should switch to the ChatGPT Edu license on the Software Portal.

Who can purchase a ChatGPT Edu License?

ChatGPT Edu subscriptions must be purchased by a faculty or staff member. Subscriptions can be assigned to faculty, staff, faculty emeriti, students, and sponsored guests.

What are the benefits of ChatGPT Edu?

Purchasing a subscription through the Rutgers Software Portal provides several benefits:

Rutgers data is not used to train OpenAI models.
You can create and share GPTs (the large language models developed by OpenAI).
Prioritized support is available for ChatGPT Edu by contacting them as described in this OpenAI article. Users can also consult the OpenAI support page.
Coordinated management, data retention, and user authentication are provided for the software.
Why must users switch to the Rutgers ChatGPT Edu license?

Using individual accounts for institutional work presents the following risks:

Data Privacy: Rutgers has signed a contract with OpenAI, the parent company of ChatGPT. Individual accounts are not included in our agreements to ensure data protection for Rutgers information. Data processed in personal accounts may be used to train future AI models.
Compliance: Personal accounts may violate internal or contractual data handling standards at Rutgers.
Sensitive Information: Individual accounts limit Rutgers ability to safeguard sensitive work.
FAQ
What if a department previously purchased ChatGPT licenses?

Some units at Rutgers have previously purchased ChatGPT Plus accounts. Individuals identified with these accounts were sent a message with instructions to switch to a Rutgers-managed ChatGPT Edu account. This is essential due to the data protection and other features available with ChatGPT Edu.

Should a department purchase subscriptions for ChatGPT?

Unless a unit has faculty, researchers, or others with an immediate need for ChatGPT Edu, we recommend using the existing tools provided by Rutgers before using ChatGPT: Google Gemini and Microsoft Copilot.

What do departments need to do?

Sign up for ChatGPT Edu by completing the subscription process in the University Software Portal. The department's business manager must set up a payment account to finalize the transaction.

Once the new Edu account is provisioned, users can migrate their data from a free or Plus workspace into the Rutgers-managed ChatGPT Edu account.

Refrain from using personal accounts for any university-related activity.

How will departments be charged?

Usage under the Rutgers ChatGPT license will be centrally billed and reconciled monthly through internal chargebacks to departments.

Users do not need to pay out-of-pocket or submit reimbursements.

Usage reports are available upon request to help departments track activity and cost.

Does the ChatGPT Edu license include access to Sora?

No. ChatGPT Free, Enterprise, and Edu accounts are not eligible for Sora access.

Can I purchase ChatGPT via a term subscription?

No, only Monthly Subscriptions are available. Monthly subscriptions can only be purchased if you have been given access to a departmental payment account by the owner of that account. The payment accounts are tied directly to a General Ledger (GL) code for the department and must be set up by the department's Director/Business Manager.

Payment cannot be made with a purchase order or credit card.

Can I migrate or merge my ChatGPT Free or Plus workspace over to my ChatGPT Edu subscription?

Yes. Please view this article for more information.

Can I license ChatGPT Pro or the ChatGPT API through the Software Portal?

No. Users interested in leveraging these features must contract with OpenAI directly.

What support is available for ChatGPT Edu licenses?

To learn about options for support for ChatGPT Edu, visit this OpenAI webpage with resources and info. Users can also consult the OpenAI support page.

" KB0018731 AI AI - Creating a Help Desk/Labs Notebook on NotebookLM "

NotebookLM is a note-taking and AI research assistant that allows users to upload documents, webpages, videos, and other sources to a personalized notebook and then uses Google s Gemini AI to analyze, digest, and produce a variety of outputs from the uploaded material.

You can create up to 100 notebooks and perform 50 chat queries per day.

To create your own Notebook for assistance with troubleshooting user issues, you can follow these instructions.

This is an additional source of information and should not be your primary source. Responses may not be entirely accurate. Verify any responses by reviewing the related knowledge articles in their entirety.

Download the .txt files located below according to your position. There are multiple files you should download and use in your Notebook:
The Public Knowledge file contains all of the public knowledge articles.
The other has position-specific Help Desk/Labs articles based on your level. Download and use all files available to you in your Notebook.
Go to the NotebookLM site.
Ensure you are logged in with your ScarletMail account by clicking your icon in the top right, and confirm it shows your ScarletMail email address.
Click Create new on the NotebookLM main page.
You'll be prompted to upload sources. Upload the files you downloaded from below.
Allow it time to process the files. It will automatically name your Notebook for you.
Once the files are processed, you can submit questions in the chat, which will search the entire set of knowledge.
Note that you are limited to 50 queries per day across all of your Notebooks.
You will need to periodically come back to this KA and download new files that contain the most up-to-date information, since the .txt files in your Notebook are not updated automatically. Delete the existing files in your Notebook and upload the 2 new files when there is a more recent version.
Public Knowledge file

Public Knowledge txt updated 1-16-26

Help Desk/Labs Knowledge file (download all that are available to you)

Help Desk and Labs Knowledge txt - updated 1-16-26

KBB0010183
General - Help Desk and Labs Knowledge PDF - Level 2 Specialists
KBB0010184
General - Help Desk and Labs Knowledge PDF - Supervisors
KBB0010185
General - Help Desk and Labs Knowledge PDF - FT



" KB0017502 AI AI - Microsoft Co-Pilot "

Any Microsoft account can now log in and access a version of CoPilot. This includes Rutgers Connect accounts. To test your access, navigate to CoPilot and log in with your Rutgers Connect information. Only the chat function of CoPilot is available to Rutgers' Connect accounts.

This is not an endorsement of the CoPilot product, and Connect Support may reverse their decision later if alternate solutions present themselves. Please do not advertise this as a product supported by the University. Connect Support will continue to make changes as the product evolves.

More information about CoPilot can be found on the Microsoft CoPilot Support page.

Connect Support has enabled commercial data protection for the Microsoft CoPilot license feature for all Rutgers Connect users to minimize any potential security risks. This license aims to protect the data that users provide to CoPilot. Note that this decision was made to protect the privacy and data of our users by adding more administrative controls.

More information about AI at Rutgers, including AI use policies and AI services, can be found on the Artificial Intelligence at Rutgers page.

" KB0011792 Archive Archive - Covid Vaccine/Immunization Portal "

[Archived KA until 6/1/28]
COVID-19 Vaccine Requirement

Information on the current requirements can be found on the Rutgers Covid-19 website.

This KA is for historical records on policies during COVID-19.

How to upload COVID-19 vaccine records

Students must follow the below steps:

Go to https://rutgers.medicatconnect.com/
Choose Rutgers University.
Login with their NetID and password.
Select the upload tab.
Scroll down to documents available to be uploaded and choose Immunization records, then upload their vaccination record.
Go back to the top of the page and select Immunization, select COVID-19, and enter their vaccination dates.

Does the Help Desk have a way to see who is included in the campaign or who has successfully uploaded their vaccination information/exemption?

If a user is included in the vaccination mandate and their information has not been verified or their exemption processed, you will see the following in the NetID Management Admin Tool

If the user is not included in the vaccination mandate OR their information has been verified/exemption processed you will not any active campaign in the NetID Management Admin Tool

Canned Responses to Common Questions

Due to the sensitivity of the vaccine mandate it is important that we are only providing guidance related to the technology aspects of the campaign. We are not authorized to provide guidance on what options a student should select or if they are eligible for an exemption. Please use the language below when assisting a user to ensure that the guidance you are providing falls within OIT's jurisdiction. All specific questions regarding the vaccine campaign should be redirected to the appropriate group.

Which option should I choose at the vaccine campaign interrupt screen? OR None of the options apply to me? OR I don t want to choose any of the options.

The Office of Information Technology is unable to provide guidance on which selection to choose when you are prompted to confirm your vaccination status or intention to get vaccinated. If you have additional questions you must contact covidvax411@rbhs.rutgers.edu . You can also find additional detail and information on the Rutgers COVID resource site at https://www.rutgers.edu/covid19

My program should exempt me from the vaccination requirement because it is online OR I am only a summer student.

The Office of Information Technology is unable to provide guidance on whether you should be exempt from the requirement. Generally, students who are only taking summer courses or are enrolled in fully online degree programs (typically defined as having no access to on-campus facilities), as well as individuals participating in fully online or off-campus Continuing Education programs, will not need to provide proof of vaccination.

If you have additional questions you must contact One Stop via the One Stop portal:
https://rutgers.force.com/OneStopPortal/s/New-Brunswick

I already uploaded my vaccination or exemption status, why can t I login?

The Office of Information Technology is unable to provide confirmation of your vaccination or exemption status, but you can check the status using the Immunization Portal. If you have uploaded your vaccination data, please allow 24 hours for your NetID to be unblocked. You may also contact covidvax411@rbhs.rutgers.edu or call the VAX Hotline Monday - Friday 8am - 5pm at 848-445-3033.

Troubleshooting

According to Student Health, Google Chrome and Safari may present issues with uploading Vaccine portal information. Have the user try Firefox or Safari.

" KB0015613 Archive Archive - DOCS Website FAQ "

[Archived KA until 6/1/28]
What happened??

Rutgers University recently detected a service disruption that required the university to temporarily take certain computer systems offline. Since the university first became aware of this, the university commenced an investigation and has been methodically working to determine the nature and scope of the disruption and restore the systems to operation.
In the interim, the following services are temporarily unavailable:??

All Continuing Studies-Related Web Sites??
LifeLongLearning.rutgers.edu?
DOCS.rutgers.edu?
TLT.rutgers.edu?
GRID.rutgers.edu?
MBS.rutgers.edu?
SummerSession.rutgers.edu?
WinterSession.rutgers.edu?
CGS.rutgers.edu?
OLLIRU.rutgers.edu?
Stay.rutgers.edu?
Media.rutgers.edu?
iTV.rutgers.edu?
CMSCE.rutgers.edu?
CCPD.rutgers.edu?
MakerSpace.rutgers.edu?
All Continuing Studies file shares and network attached storage.?
All Continuing Studies databases and any applications associated to those databases.??
This includes OrangeHRM, EMS, ScheduALL, DICES, NJDataBook.?

ANCOR, the noncredit registration system at CE-Catalog.rutgers.edu remains available and unaffected by this outage.??



When did the service disruption begin??

The university became aware of this on December 1, 2022. Since then, efforts have been underway to methodically investigate the disruption and restore the involved systems to operation as quickly as possible.?



Doesn t Rutgers have a back-up to help remediate situations like this??

Rutgers does maintain backups and is evaluating whether there is a need to use them here.??



Has personal information been taken from the system??

?The investigation is ongoing; we are unable to provide this information at this time.?



Is this a ransomware attack??

?The investigation is ongoing; we are unable to provide this information at this time.



What is Rutgers doing about this??

Since the university first became aware of the disruption, efforts have been underway to methodically investigate the nature and scope of the disruption and to restore the involved systems to operation as quickly as possible.?



?Is this a school-wide issue or just certain departments??

?The investigation is ongoing; we are unable to provide this information at this time.



?If someone asks additional questions about the issue what should I tell them??

If you are asked additional questions about this incident, please do the following:??

Give the user the following response:
"Unfortunately, I m not the best person to respond to your questions. If you can provide me with your contact information and further questions, I ll be happy to pass your inquiry along to the appropriate contact and have them get in touch with you."
Collect their name, phone number and email. And add to the corresponding Spreadsheet below based on who they are:

Staff or Student associated with DOCS
Media/press, or all other inquiries
Resolve Incident, if no other assistance is required for other issues.

For Supervisors Only

At end of the day work with FT to coordinate sending the spreadsheets with collected information to the appropriate people.







" KB0011251 Archive Curbside printing ServiceNow process "

Curbside printing workflow in ServiceNow [Archived until June 1st, 2028]
Setting up a filter for curbside printing tasks
In the All section of the toolbar, expand Service Catalog > Open Records and click Tasks.

In the top left corner of the screen, click Filter and add the following fields by clicking AND across the top:

Active > is > true
Assignment Group > is > NB-Labs - Busch, NB-Labs - Livingston, or NB-Labs - College Ave (Depending on the lab group you work for).

To run the filter once all fields are in place, click Run.
Now, the page should ONLY show the pending Curbside Printing jobs for the respective campus that you chose
Click on Save... next to the Run button to open the options for saving your filter.
Name the filter and select Save, on the right.

Once you have saved this filter, you can access it by pressing the List controls hamburger menu (three lines) next to the Filter button, and navigating to the Filters > option.

Curbside print process - Printing a job
When a user submits a print job to the curbside queue, each print job will create a new Task. If a user submits 5 print jobs, 5 Tasks will be generated, one for each print job. Each Task will have a SCTASK number associated with it.
Select the SCTASK number for the job that you will be processing.

Within the Task, you will see all the relevant information for the job including the document name, cost, and number of pages

Find the print job in PaperCut in Jobs Pending Release and release the job.
Mark the print job as Print Successfully in the dropdown menu.
**NOTE: If you accidentally select the wrong choice, you will have to discard your changes and go back into the Task in order to change your choice in this dropdown menu**

Set the State of the task to Closed Complete.
Click Update in the top right corner of the page to save your changes.
An email gets automatically sent to the patron through ServiceNow. A new Deliver job to patron task will now be created for the print job.

Curbside printing process Delivering a job
The patron will call into your lab to pick up their print jobs. After the job has been delivered to the patron, find the Deliver job to patron tasks that the patron picked up.
In the top right of the page, set the State of the Task to Closed Complete.
Click Update in the top right corner of the page to save your changes.
The Task will disappear from the list. Repeat for all print jobs the patron picked up.
Curbside printing process Error while printing the job

Use the following process if an error occurs while printing the user s print job. We will not be able to retry the print job. This process will have ServiceNow send an automatic email to the user saying that there was an error printing their print job and they receive a balance adjustment for the cost of the job.

While trying to print the print job, the print job does not come out or does not print properly.
Set the dropdown menu item for Printed Successfully to No.

Set the State of the Task to Closed Incomplete.

Click Update in the top right of the page to save your changes.
Task will disappear from the list. Managers will get a new task to issue a balance adjustment for the print job.
Curbside printing process Patron never picks up print job
If a print job has not been picked up after 72 hours, a new Discard job task will be created for the print job.

Discard the print job and then mark the Discard job task s State as Closed Complete. This will also automatically make the State for the Deliver job to patron task to Closed Skipped.
Click Update in the top right of the page to save your changes.

**NOTE: If the user comes to pick up the job before you physically discard the job but after the Discard job task was created, simply mark the original Deliver job to patron task as Closed Complete and the Discard job task as Closed Skipped**

" KB0016544 Archive Data Security Incident - Experian IdentityWorks "

[Archived until June 1st, 2028]

Rutgers recently concluded its investigation of an incident that involved unauthorized access to a Rutgers email account. Upon discovering the incident, Rutgers secured the email account and launched an investigation with the assistance of a cybersecurity firm. Through the investigation, Rutgers determined that an unauthorized actor may have accessed certain emails and/or attachments contained in the email mailbox. Rutgers reviewed those files, and on July 5, 2023, identified affected individuals where one or more file(s) containing their name and personal information may have been accessed.

The users who are affecting will receive letters identifying the information that may have been accessed. Rutgers has secured the services of Experian IdentityWorksSM to offer complimentary identity theft protection services for one year to those affected. Enrolling in these services will not hurt their credit score. More information on the Experian services, including instructions on how to activate the complimentary membership, as well as some additional steps they can take in response to this incident, can be found in the letter they received.

Information we cannot provide

Never provide the third party number. If they are affected they will get a letter and should only get the number from there. Only provide the number to the user if Full Time directs you to do so.

Never tell the user if they are or are not on the list of those affected. They will learn if they are affected based on whether they received the letter or not.

Steps to take

When a user calls in asking about the security incident:

If they got a letter:
They should call the number provided on the letter. We should not provide the number to any user that calls in.
If they believe they are affected, and they did not get a letter:

Consultant should escalate to Full Time who can check if the user is on the list of those affected:
If they are not on the list:
We should tell them they should wait for a letter for confirmation.
We should NOT tell them that they are not affected.
If they are on the list:
We should tell them they can call the number (Full Time can provide consultants with the number if needed) for more information.
We should NOT tell them they are affected.
Third party support number

If they have any questions about this incident, direct them to call the third party number (found in the letter), Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Central Time, excluding major U.S. holidays.

For assistance enrolling in the complimentary identity theft protection services, they should contact Experian s customer care team (number is provided in the letter). They will need to provide the engagement number as proof of eligibility, which can be found in the letter.

Tag for the Incident

In ServiceNow, we have the ability to add tags to incidents. A tag has been created called Data Security Incident for our group. When you create the incident, please add this tag. Don't forget to save the incident after you add the tag:

KBB0010133FT - Data Security Incident - Experian IdentityWorks



" KB0018062 Archive Data Security Incident Response Letters "

[Archived until June 1st, 2028]

Rutgers recently discovered an incident involving the inadvertent disclosure of files that contained names and Social Security numbers. In response, Rutgers confirmed that the files containing the information were deleted.

The users who are affected will receive letters identifying the information that may have been accessed. Rutgers has secured the services of Experian IdentityWorksSM to offer complimentary identity theft protection services for one year to those affected. Enrolling in these services will not hurt their credit score.

More information on Experian services, including instructions on activating the complimentary membership, as well as some additional steps they can take in response to this incident, can be found in the letter they received. The letter contains a phone number that users can reach out to with any questions or concerns regarding this incident.

Information we cannot provide

Never provide the third-party number. If they are affected, they will get a letter and should only get the number from there. Only provide the number to the user if Full Time directs you to do so.

Never tell the user if they are or are not someone that was affected. They will learn if they are affected based on whether they received the letter or not.

Steps to take

When a user calls in asking about the security incident, you can confirm that the letter they received in the mail is legitimate. If they got a letter, they should call the number provided on the letter for any questions or concerns. We should not provide the number to any user who calls in or comments on the security incident.

Third party support number

If they have any questions about this incident, direct them to call the third party number (found in the letter), Monday through Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. Eastern Time, excluding major U.S. holidays.

For assistance enrolling in the complimentary identity theft protection services, they should contact Experian s customer care team (at a different phone number than the incident phone number, but is also provided in the letter). They will need to provide the engagement number as proof of eligibility, which can be found in the letter.

Media Inquiries

If someone associated with the media contacts us regarding this incident, follow the instructions in the Policies and Procedures - Sensitive information and media/press inquiries article.

" KB0016309 Archive ITS - Outlook - Add Shared Mailbox (Not as a new Profile) "

[Archived until June 1st, 2029]

When you need to add a shared mailbox to your Outlook (not as a new profile), follow these steps:
Navigate to the File > Account Settings > Account Settings.
Select your email address in the account list.
Select Change > More Settings > Advanced tab > Add.
Enter the shared account name and click OK.
Click Apply > OK > Next > Finish.
The shared mailbox will now automatically display in your Folder pane in Outlook

" KB0016325 Archive ITS - Password Requirements "

[Archived until June 1st, 2028]

ITS (Echo) password complexity requirements are as follows:

Each password is valid for 365 days.
The new password cannot be the same as the new password.
The password must be at least 10 characters.
The password may not contain the user's account name or parts of the user's full name that exceed two consecutive characters.
The password must contain characters from three of the following four categories:
English uppercase characters (A through Z)
English lowercase characters (a through z)
Base 10 digits (0 through 9)
Non-alphabetic characters (for example, !, $, #, %)

" KB0016905 Archive ITS - Resetting an ITS password "

[Archived until June 1st, 2028]
Make sure you're connected to the Rutgers VPN.
Open Remote Desktop Connection.
Enter one of these 3 virtual machines as the Computer name:
CASC112VMC4.its.rutgers.edu
CASC112VMC5.its.rutgers.edu
CASC112VMC6.its.rutgers.edu
Click Connect.
Click More Choices.
Click Use a different account.
Enter the following credentials
User name: ITS\netid_admin
Password: Your ITS Admin password
Click OK.
If it prompts you to connect due to certificate errors, click Yes.
On the desktop find and double click on Active Directory Users and Computers.
Right click on ad-its.rutgers.edu.
Click Find.
Enter the user's NetID in the Name field.
Click Find Now.
In the search results, right click on the user.
Click Reset Password.
Enter the temp password for the month.
Click OK.
Force require a new password at next login. And check the box to unlock the account.
Make sure to click the Windows icon and then choose to Logout so the next person can log on.

" KB0016395 Archive ITS - Shared Drive - Determining path "

[Archived until June 1st, 2028]

For determining paths of shared drives, users must already have:

Active Directory and Group Policy Management installed on PC?
Have User s Department Name and Shared Drive Type (I, M)?

This example uses the DICE Shared (I:) Drive

Open Group Policy Management




Expand the following Drop Down Menus: Forest: ad-its.rutgers.edu>Domains>ad-its.rutgers.edu>Workstations and Users>Department of Use




Once in the Departments Folders Structure, click on Users and then click on Department Shared Drives?




Click on Settings, and then navigate down to Drive Maps




Click on the Correct Drive Type (This either falls into a I Drive or M Drive)>Order>General, and the path should be listed under Location?




" KB0017590 Archive ITS - Student Affairs SharePoint "

[Archived until June 1st, 2028]
User gets Let us know why you need access to this site. Screen or SharePoint login screen doesn t take log-on credentials (keeps having the login box pop up)
Has the user accessed SharePoint previously?
No: They must request access via ticket to the ITS System Admins; forward ticket to ESD ITS System Admins.
Yes: Move to question 2.
Are they working from home?
Yes: Do they have Cisco AnyConnect downloaded and running?
If not connected (and don t have it installed), have them download Cisco AnyConnect from vpn.rutgers.edu.
If not connected (but do have it installed), open Cisco AnyConnect and have them log in.
No: Skip to question 3
What OS and browser is the user using?
Once you find this out, go to question 4.
Are they using a private/incognito tab?
Note: Using an incognito tab allows the user to log in with different credentials; this is required due to the migration from ITS/Echo to RAD.
Yes: Skip to question 5.
No: Use question 3 s answer to open a private tab/window.
Safari:
Choose File > New Private Window.
Can alternately press ? + Shift + n
A private browsing window has a dark Smart Search field with white text.
Google Chrome:
In the top right-hand corner, click the three vertical dots and go to New Incognito Window (about the third or fourth option down)
Can alternatively press Ctrl + Shift + n (Windows) or ? + Shift + n (MacOS)
FireFox:
Click on the Firefox Menu in the upper-right-hand corner of the browser and select New Private Window.
Can alternatively press Shift + CTRL + P (Windows) or Shift + ? + P (on macOS)
What did they put for the username section?
The proper username to logon with is ITS\netid
Do they know their ITS password?
No:
Go to webapps.rutgers.edu/itsid
Select Forgot my password.
Have them answer their security questions and set a new password. (See here)
If they cannot answer their security questions for any reason, follow the password reset process located here.
Yes:
Ensure they know that their NetID and ITS password are not the same. (Have them go to webapps.rutgers.edu/itsid and test their password in the Change password option.)
If it is correct/ it takes their input, move on to next step
If it is not correct, move to the No option in this question to reset their password.
Is there password expired? (This can be checked in one of the VMs through CMD prompt). In CMD prompt, type in net user netid /domain and look for the password expiration date.
No: Contact FT or ITS Field Support for assistance
Yes:
Go to webapps.rutgers.edu/itsid
Select Change password.
Have them set a new password and try to log into SharePoint again.
If they can t log into the SharePoint site after this, contact FT or ITS Field Support for assistance.
User wants/needs an easier way to access the SharePoint site (and/or wants a shortcut)

Create a shortcut for the user. Note: For the purposes of this instruction, we re using Google Chrome as the example browser but these instructions should work for any Windows computer.

Find the shortcut of the browser they re using on the desktop.
Right-click on it and select copy towards the middle of the mini-menu (or ctrl + c).
Right-click anywhere on the desktop in a blank space and select paste (or ctrl + v).
Right-click on the newly-pasted shortcut and select properties at the bottom of the mini-menu.
In Target: after the path listed (which will include quotation marks), copy the text in the bullet below and paste it after the quotation marks:
Note: There is a space between "chrome.exe" and -incognito.
-incognito https://sasharepoint.rutgers.edu
Once that s done, click apply and ok, and then close the mini-window.
Double-click the shortcut to ensure that an incognito opens and that the SA SharePoint comes up.
If successful, nothing else should need to be done, unless the user specifies. If the site does not come up, revisit step 5.

" KB0014114 Bomgar Bomgar - Information and Policies "

Table of Contents
Bomgar Policies
Bomgar Client Instructions
Canned Messages
Greeting
Password Reset Without Activation Key
Password Reset With Activation Key
Screenshot of User Desktop
Mail Client Documentation
Mail Client Setup
Mail Client Settings Check
Closing
Troubleshooting
Reporting Procedure
Bomgar Policies

Bomgar allows us to remotely view a user's computer so we have a better idea of what they're doing and guide them through using certain sites or setting up applications. We've included some brief guidance on using Bomgar below.

Make sure the user is aware that the file download only allows one-time access. Once the session has ended, we will have no further access to view the user's computer, and the program will be uninstalled. During the session, you can see everything they see on their screen. The user can cancel the remote session at any time by clicking the X in the chat window, which will give them the option to close the chat window as well or continue chatting without sharing the screen.
Let the user know that the entire session will be logged. They should not put any sensitive information, such as passwords or Social Security Numbers, into the chat.
If the user is from RBHS, remind them that they have access to PHI Information and advise that if there is any PHI information on their screen, to please close it.
After starting the session, include the user's ServiceNow ticket number in the chat so it can be easily linked back.
You should end the Bomgar session before ending the phone call. If the user disconnects the phone call prematurely (but not accidentally), close the Bomgar chat.
If you see anything that makes you uncomfortable or you find offensive please ask the caller to hold, and approach the CSq Supervisor for guidance.
Make sure you are not using screen sharing when the user enters potentially sensitive information, such as when entering answers to security questions.
After the chat session has ended, paste the entirety of the session's chat history into the ServiceNow ticket.
Bomgar Client Instructions
Explain that using Bomgar, we may view the user's screen but not control it and only see what is in the currently active window. Have the user close any sensitive information they would not like displayed before starting the session, and let them know if at any point they would like to discontinue the screen sharing, they may click on the red X in the chat window that will appear.
Login to the Bomgar web client.
Select Launch Bomgar Web Rep Console.
Select Start New Session in the top right.
Select Generate Session Key in the top right.
Have the user navigate to bomgar.edm.rutgers.edu, enter the Session key, and hit Submit.

If the user has trouble navigating to the website, you may send them the appropriate boilerplate (email) with the session key.
Have the user enter their NetID and ticket number when prompted for their name.

This will download the Bomgar program. The user will need to run this file to continue with the Bomgar setup.
Under All Queues, the user's session will appear. Select Accept on the right to start the session.

This will bring up the Bomgar console and allow you to begin the session.
Click the computer icon in the top left to begin the Screen Sharing process.

This will send a message to the user. They must click Allow to start Screen Sharing.
You will now be able to see the user's screen.

Send the main greeting message and any relevant secondary message(s).
Continue with the rest of the session.
Once completed, send the closing message and give the caller the ticket number.
Paste the chat transcript into the ServiceNow Ticket.
Hit the X in the top right, then End Session to close the Bomgar session.

This will uninstall the program from the user's machine and provide a window for feedback submission.

Please send the following messages during your Bomgar session.

Canned Messages
Greeting

Thank you for contacting the Help Desk. To assist you better, we will be connecting remotely to your computer. While connected, we will be able to view your desktop and see certain programs running on your computer. Throughout this session, you will still retain complete control over your computer. If you do not feel comfortable with us viewing your computer at any time, you may disconnect it by clicking on the X button in the chat window. All activity, including a video of all actions happening while we are connected to your computer, will be recorded.

Password Reset Without Activation Key

At this time, we will walk you through resetting your password. During this process, we may use annotations to draw arrows and other symbols on your screen to direct you to the appropriate links.

To reset your password, we will do the following:

Redirect your web browser to netid.rutgers.edu with your permission.
Go to Manage NetID.
We will show you where to enter your NetID and current password.
We will show you where to enter your new password. We will not be able to see what you are typing in for your new password.
While resetting your password, you will be prompted to reset your security questions. Although we will stay on the phone with you, we will disconnect from your computer at this time to ensure your information is kept private.

Once we have completed your session, our chat history will be included in your ServiceNow ticket for future reference.

Your ServiceNow ticket number is: [Ticket number]

Password Reset With Activation Key

At this time, we will walk you through resetting your password. During this process, we may use annotations to draw arrows and other symbols on your screen to direct you to the appropriate links.

To reset your password, we will do the following:

Redirect your web browser to netid.rutgers.edu with your permission.
Go to Manage NetID.
Go to Forgotten Password.
Assist you in filling out the Forgotten Password form. We will not be able to view your Social Security Number nor your RUID as it is entered on this form, but we will be able to see your name and birthday.
Your Activation Key will be provided to you in the chat.
Before resetting your password, you will be prompted to reset your security questions. Although we will stay on the phone with you, we will disconnect from your computer at this time to ensure your information is kept private.

Once we have completed your session, our chat history will be included in your ServiceNow ticket for future reference.

Your ServiceNow ticket number is: [Ticket number]

Screenshot of User Desktop

At this time, we may need to take a picture of your desktop to illustrate the error message you are getting. During this process, we may use annotations to draw arrows and other symbols on your screen to direct you to the appropriate places.

Now we will do the following:

Ask you to walk us through the steps you took, to reproduce the issue.
We may see what is causing the issue you are having and direct you to take additional steps.
If we need to take a screenshot, we will notify you ahead of time.
If you have any windows or programs open that you do not feel comfortable being displayed, please close these programs now.

Once we have completed your session, our chat history will be included in your ticket for future reference.

Your ServiceNow ticket number is: [Ticket number]

Mail Client Documentation

Relevant mail client documentation for Rutgers Connect and ScarletMail:

Setting up Thunderbird for ScarletMail

ScarletMail MacOS Setup

ScarletMail Windows 10 Setup

Rutgers Connect Thunderbird Setup

Rutgers Connect MacOS Setup

Rutgers Connect Outlook Setup

Rutgers Connect Outlook 2016 Setup

Mail Client Setup

At this time, we will walk you through setting up your mail client to access your email. The documentation we will be using can be found at [select appropriate Rutgers IT link above]. During this process, we may use annotations to draw arrows and other symbols on your screen to direct you to the appropriate settings for your email reading program. Now we will do the following:

Help you start the email reading program.
Direct you to the menu items to add a new email account.
Show you the correct settings to set up your program so that you can read your email.
We will be able to see the settings you are entering but not sensitive information such as your password.
Once we have completed your session, our chat history will be included in your ServiceNow ticket for future reference.

Your ServiceNow ticket number is: [Ticket number]

Mail Client Settings Check

At this time, we will walk you through checking the settings of the program you use to access your email. During this process, we may use annotations to draw arrows and other symbols on your screen to direct you to the settings for your email reading program. The documentation we will be using can be found at [select appropriate Rutgers IT link above]. Now we will do the following:

Redirect your web browser to [select appropriate Rutgers IT link above].
Go to the settings of your email reading program.
We will ask you to click on different windows and sections of the screen.

We will review these settings together to ensure your program is properly configured.

Once we have completed your session, our chat history will be included in your ServiceNow ticket for future reference.

Your ServiceNow ticket number is: [Ticket number]

Closing

Once we have completed your session, our chat history will be included in your ServiceNow ticket for future reference.

Your ServiceNow ticket number is: [Ticket number]

Troubleshooting

If a department or user has issues with an account or wants to use Bomgar, we should refer them to edm_support@oit.rutgers.edu.

If Bomgar is presenting issues or is inaccessible, please use the following to diagnose the issue before reporting.

Attempt to log in via the downloaded client.
Attempt to login to the web interface here.
Attempt to access the user interface here, and if possible attempt to access it off the Rutgers network.
Reporting Procedure

After diagnosing the extent of the issue, email edm_support@oit.rutgers.edu, and cc hd_supervisors@oit.rutgers.edu and hd_mgr@oit.rutgers.edu.

" KB0016437 Bomgar Bomgar - ITS Instructions and Admin Credentials "

The ability to elevate to take control of the user s mouse, entire computer, and/or to enter Administrator credentials will only work for ITS computers. Please keep that in mind when reading through this guide.

Look Up Computers in KACE

Kace has a database of desktops, laptops, and other devices, among other things. Looking up devices in KACE can provide further insight into things like IPs, Hostname, User, Model, OS, Software. Follow the instructions in the KACE knowledge article on looking up device info.

Start an ITS Bomgar Session
Explain to the user that you d like to use Bomgar to assist; explain to the user what Bomgar is, what you intend to do, and give them the chance to approve, ask questions, or object.
Log into the Bomgar Desktop Application or the Bomgar Web Client.
Start a Bomgar session. There are 3 possible ways to do start a Bomgar session
Reading off the Session Key
Email the Session Key
Jump Client (Note: This will only work for ITS computers)
Reading Off the Session Key
Select Session Key.




Direct the user to nbits.edm.rutgers.edu or its.rutgers.edu (preferred) and click on Begin Remote Support.
If they are prompted for the session key, provide it to the user. The user will enter it, select Submit > enter their name.
You should see an Incoming Connection prompt with the user s name and IP address.
Alternatively they may just be prompted to enter their name in which case they will appear in the Bomgar queue, double click on them in the queue to start the session.
Once you accept the incoming session, the user will see a Remote Support chat box and a Screen Sharing button in the middle of the Bomgar screen.
Select Screen Sharing, and the user will see "[Your/consultant s name] is requesting full access to your computer" along with Allow or Refuse options.
Note: though it will say you/the consultant is requesting full access to the user s computer, it will only share the screen (or whatever the user selects) initially
Once the user selects Allow, the user will be prompted with what to share (Browser tab, Window, or Entire Screen).
Instruct the user to select what to share. Typically it's Entire Screen > select one of the screens (if they have more than one) > Share.
Emailing the Session Key
Select Session Key.
You ll see Send with a small downward arrow.
Select Send > Send Local Email or Send Server Email.

Send Server Email is preferred and will send through the Bomgar Application itself (and you may not see it send/get a confirmation other than verbally asking the user (beyond beginning the session)).
Send Local Email will use the Outlook Desktop application.
Once the user clicks the link, you should see an "Incoming Connection" prompt with the user s name and IP address.
Once you accept the incoming session, the user will see a Remote Support chat box and a Screen Sharing button in the middle of the Bomgar screen.
Select Screen Sharing, and the user will see:
"[Your/consultant s name] is requesting full access to your computer" along with Allow or Refuse options.
Note: though it will say you/the consultant is requesting full access to the user s computer, it will only share the screen (or whatever the user selects) initially.
Once the user selects Allow, the user will be prompted with what to share (Browser tab, Window, or Entire Screen).
Instruct the user to select what to share. Typically it's Entire Screen > select one of the screens (if they have more than one) > Share.
Through the Jump Client
Find the desired computer in the bottom middle section that lists all connected computers (you can also do a search for it).
Select the row that has the desired computer > Screen Sharing.
If assisting a user this way, be aware (and let the user know) that if someone is logged on, they may be disconnected, if both parties allow.
If no one is logged in, it will have you log into the computer.
If someone is logged in, it will disconnect the user (you/the consultant will be prompted first, and then the user, if you/the consultant clicks Yes). Once both you/the consultant and the user click Yes/Ok, the user will be disconnected and you will be in the computer.
To end the session with the user, select X in the right-hand corner.
Elevating for control of the user's computer (will only work for ITS computers)
Select Full Customer Client (this icon is the person and the green arrow pointing down on the right-hand side of the screen).
Note: This will only work for ITS computers; If you do not have the right Bomgar permissions or group(s), you may not see the icon at all.
This will generate a different prompt for the user to accept or deny.
Make sure you inform the user that this will start a file download, that this file will allow Bomgar remote access control of the computer, and why you are attempting to gain access to the computer.
Unlike the Screen Share request, this one will say:
"[consultant s name] is requesting to elevate to full remote support which will allow more features like screen sharing and file transfer. You will be required to run an application that will be sent to you. Do you wish to continue? Accept or Decline".
Once the user selects Accept, this will initiate the file download. Instruct the user to open the file once it finishes downloading.
As the Bomgar client is elevating, it will show on the user s screen as two monitors with 3 dots in between.
Once the client is established, the user will see:
"This session is now being handled by a different client".
Select Screen Share. The user will get another prompt saying:
"[Your/consultant s name] is requesting full access to your computer".
Instruct the user to select Allow. Once they do, you should now be able to take control of the mouse/computer.
Elevating to enter Administrator credentials (will only work for ITS computers)

Once you see the user s screen (and have control of the computer as noted above), you may need to push a request to elevate permissions so you can input administrative credentials.

If you do not elevate, situations where administrative credentials are required may generate a black screen for you and you won t be able to do anything until the user closes out the prompt requesting the credentials. Note: If you do not have the right Bomgar permissions or group(s), you may also run into this issue but you may not see the shield icon at all (it should be in the upper right-hand corner).

Select the shield icon:
If device is on the RAD domain (most are), use your NetID-adm credentials to login:
Username: rad\NetID-adm
Password: Your ADM password. This password would be different than your regular NetID password. If you forgot your RAD-adm password you can reset it on this page by logging in with your regular NetID credentials.
If the device is on the ITS domain still, enter your ITS Admin credentials (netid_admin and your ITS admin Password) > Ok. Not everyone may have ITS Admin Credentials yet. Admin credentials for laptops are different, reach out to FT to get them.
If successful, you should see "Elevation in progress ".
The user will see a "Do you want to allow this app to make changes to your device?" prompt from Bomgar. Instruct them to select Accept and the elevation should go through.
Once the user accepts, it will say "Waiting for Reconnect" on your screen.
Once elevated, the text box in the upper right-hand corner will say "[your/consultant s name] can now have full access to the customer s computer".
KBB0010138ITS - Bomgar - Instructions and Admin Credentials

" KB0016397 Bomgar Bomgar - Using Bomgar on Macs "

This article assumes you are familiar with the ITS - Bomgar - Instructions and Admin Credentials article

Opening a session
Direct the user to bomgar.edm.rutgers.edu to begin the Remote Support session. Once there, have them enter the provided session key and their name to proceed.
Request full access through the Bomgar queue window.
The user will be prompted to download the client; direct the user to open the file and run it, then select Open on the window that appears. If the software does not automatically run, have the user click the headset icon, which should now appear in their dock.
Screen sharing
One you request screen sharing through Bomgar, a dialog box will appear for the user where they can either refuse or allow full access to the computer; instruct them to click Allow.
A new dialog box will appear for the user. The user must click Grant Access for both Screen Recording and Full Disk Access to proceed.

" KB0016487 Box Box - Audit Unlocking and Extensions "

As part of the Box Audits, we may receive requests from users who were accessing files shared by a user who no longer holds a Rutgers role, stating they are unable to access these files because the owner's account has been locked.

Users can view a list of all files/folders shared with them, along with the owners of those shares, by going to the Service Management page and clicking Show Box Collaborators under the Box section.

If users need an account unlocked, a file unlocked, or access extended, they must submit the request through UEC. UEC will approve or deny and then work with Box Support to grant the user the approved access.

" KB0016710 Box Box - Determining Shared File/Folder Owners "

Determining Box shares in CAT

In the Cloud Admin Tool (CAT), under the Box section, select Collaborators. This tab will display any users that this user is currently collaborating within Box. This includes any shares this user is accessing from other users and any shares that this user is sharing with other users.

The Share Direction indicates whether the user is Sharing To the collaborator or Accessing From the collaborator. Remember that the collaborator may be a user or a Box shared account. If the collaborator is a user, you will see the collaborator's name, Box email address, their domain, and the number of objects shared.

If a collaborator's Box account is currently within the auditing/de-provisioning process, the row will be red to indicate the share will be going away soon.

The Count indicates the number of objects shared, each object can be either a folder or an individual file. If an object is a folder, the count does not include the number of files within that shared folder.

Please note that the collaboration report is generated once a week on Tuesday mornings.

Users' ability to determine their own Box shares in Service Activation

Instruct users to go to the Service Management Page and look under the Box section. Have them select Show Box Collaborators to pull up the same information we see in CAT. From here, the user can determine on their owner the individuals or groups that any of their Box content is shared to/from. Users can select CSV or Excel to export and download a spreadsheet of the collaboration information.

Even when a user's Box account is locked, a user can still view their collaborators here. That way, even if they are being audited and they ask for a list of their Box shares, the user can still get it themselves.

" KB0019535 Box Box - Virus Detection - Email Support Procedures "

Box automatically scans for malicious files and removes them from the online platform. When Box detects and removes a malicious file, it sends an automated alert to help@oit.rutgers.edu.

While the online file is handled by the Box technical team, IT support must intervene to ensure the user does not have a local copy of the malicious file on their personal or work device.

These alerts will automatically generate a ticket in ServiceNow. You can identify them by the following criteria:

Sender: noreply@box.com
Message Body Example:
"Virus detected for file 'example.css' Uploaded by: example@rutgers.edu File name: example.css Folder owner: example@rutgers.edu Path: [File Path]"

When you receive an incident matching the alert above, please perform the following steps:

Change the caller field to "Abuse"
Update the Assignment Group: Route the ticket to the local IT Support group responsible for the affected user identified in the Box message.
Use the Help@OIT Box Virus Detected Response response template.

" KB0011231 Connect Connect "

Rutgers Connect is the secure email service used by Rutgers connected individuals that are expected to interact with privileged information. This includes all Staff, and Faculty as well as individuals connected to the Medical schools or programs with a PHI=Y flag.

General Connect documentation available to the public can be found at the Rutgers Connect page.

User may find their Rutgers Connect email address by going to netid.rutgers.edu and accessing the Manage Email Addresses section; it should be listed under the Rutgers Connect Account Information section.

The following are a selection of Knowledge Articles that consultants may find useful or relevant to issues they are troubleshooting:

CAT (Cloud Admin Tool)
Rutgers Connect - Handling Connect Calls
Rutgers Connect - Audits Useful for understanding how to help a caller that was a former staff member trying to access material on their Connect Account.
Rutgers Connect - Auto Provisioning Useful for understanding how Connect domains get assigned and what to look for if someone may not have their domain assigned.
Rutgers Connect - Emeritus and Retirees
Rutgers Connect - Guest Account Provisioning
Rutgers Connect - Microsoft Endpoint Manager (Intune) Device Administration Useful for understanding how to setup Connect on mobile devices.
Rutgers Connect - Spam Filtering
Rutgers Connect - Thunderbird and Rutgers Connect (IMAP)

If the user has questions that extend beyond the scope of the above documents, please speak with a supervisor to obtain additional troubleshooting steps and information.

" KB0014354 Connect Connect (Office 365) - Auto Provisioning "

Rutgers Connect accounts are automatically created for all faculty/staff who go through the NetID activation process. By activating these accounts, faculty/staff will also have the associated Microsoft Office products that come with Office 365. This information can be found on our Microsoft Office for Faculty and Staff page.

Activating Connect Account
All faculty/staff who activate their NetID are eligible to activate a Rutgers Connect account.
When the user gets to the Service Selection portion of the NetID Activation process, they will see the page below. Rutgers Connect will automatically be checked off for the user and they cannot uncheck it.

The NetID activation process will attempt to place a user into their correct domain in Rutgers Connect using their org code. If we are unable to identify the correct domain to put the user in, they will be asked to self-provide their campus affiliation. This will drop the user into a generic domain.

If a user selects New Brunswick/Other they will be put into the connect.rutgers.edu domain
If a user selects Newark they will be put in the newark.rutgers.edu
If a user selects Camden they will be put in the camden.rutgers.edu domain
Users will then select a personalized email address. This page will also provide the user with their sign-in address. This will be located in the line "The above email address will deliver email to: netid@domain.rutgers.edu".
Lastly, the user will be presented with a summary of their NetID activation. The first section of this page provides the user with their NetID and the second section will show the user their Official Rutgers Email Address (personalized email address) as well as directions on how to log in to their Rutgers Connect Account.
Note: After activation, users may need to wait up to 30 minutes before attempting to log into their account.
After a user activates their NetID, they are strongly advised to speak with their departmental IT support to ensure they are in the correct domain in Rutgers Connect.
If there are any questions regarding this process, please speak with a Supervisor.

" KB0014355 Connect Connect (Office 365) - Emeritus and Retirees "

Rutgers Connect delegated admins will be able to move users that have an Emeritus role to the @emeritus.rutgers.edu domain in Connect. That means users with an Emeritus role may keep their Rutgers Connect account if they wish and will not be forced to move to ScarletMail. The delegated admin can decide whether or not to leave their old @domain.rutgers.edu aliases attached to the user's account, or they can choose to remove them. Delegated admins will also be able to claim any user in the @emeritus.rutgers.edu domain and move them to the domain they administrate.

Users with the Emeritus role are permitted to have a ScarletMail and Rutgers Connect account, and are provisioned with a full Connect license. Users with the Emeritus role that activate a Connect account via the "Service Activation" link on the NetID Management page will automatically be placed in the @emeritus.rutgers.edu domain. Users with the Emeritus role are not permitted to set their delivery address to anything other than @scarletmail.rutgers.edu or @connect.rutgers.edu.

Users with a Retiree role are only permitted to have a ScarletMail account, and their delivery address will be set to their @scarletmail.rutgers.edu address. Retirees are not permitted to set their delivery address to anything other than their @scarletmail.rutgers.edu address.

Note: If a user has a Faculty, Staff, Guest, or Student role, the above does not apply to them because those roles always take precedence over the Emeritus and Retiree roles.

More information on these roles can be found at KB0014281.

" KB0016221 Connect Connect (Office 365) - Integrations for Microsoft Office Applications "

For security reasons, Microsoft Office 365 integrations need to be evaluated by Rutgers OIT before inclusion. To find what integrations have already been approved, you can click on add-ins in an Office application:







The Admin Managed section includes integrations that have been approved for use.

If an integration is not listed that a user would like, they must request this service through the Rutgers IT Help Portal. The form is called Office 365 Integrations and under Request Service > Email and Collaboration Services. If they do not see the form listed, they may need to have their delegated admin fill it out on their behalf. There is no guarantee that their service will be approved. This is dependent on many factors, including security and demand.

You can view the KA on approved and denied Connect add-ins and inform the user if it has already been approved or denied.

" KB0014356 Connect Connect - Guest Account Provisioning "

If a Guest requires a Rutgers Connect account, the Guest should reach out to their Sponsor who would then contact their Rutgers Connect delegated administrator. The delegated administrator can license the user and should move the user to their appropriate domain.

Once a Rutgers Connect account has been created for the Guest, it will be treated like any other account and be deleted when the user no longer has any roles qualifying them for an account (i.e., when their Guest role expires and no other suitable role has been assigned).

" KB0014357 Connect Connect - Handling Connect calls "

When a user calls in with a Connect issue we need to determine whether we can properly assist them or if we should get their IT Departmental Staff involved.

General issues

For general issues that are covered in our documentation or Microsoft s documentation, such as setting up Connect on a mobile device or sharing a calendar, we can attempt to assist the user.

Please keep in mind that some departments may have their own set of rules for Connect that they want their staff to follow. We want to ensure that we are not overriding these rules when a user calls in. For example, some departments do not want their staff using IMAP when setting up Connect, so we should always instruct users to use auto-discovery and refer them to their department for IMAP setup.

More involved issues

For more involved issues, issues specific to the department, or issues taking a while for us to handle, we need to reach out to IT Staff for their department.

To do this, we let the user know that there is a dedicated team for their specific department that we need to escalate the issue to. To find the correct Rutgers Connect Domain Administrator for their department, navigate to the Rutgers Information Technology Help & Support page. Use the table to the right side of the How to find your IT support contact box to find the appropriate contact for the user; right-clicking on the Department name and selecting copy link address will allow you to copy the email for the user's delegated admin. We can then provide the user with this information.

Note: Any user calling from the Athletics or Scarlet Knight department with Connect issues, needs to speak to their IT Departmental Staff, independent of the type of issue. We can let the user know that we will connect them to the group that handles their issue.

" KB0014725 Connect Connect - Microsoft Bookings "

Microsoft Bookings is a scheduling tool that assists with booking appointments, and it is now included with a Rutgers Connect Office 365 license.

For more information about Microsoft Bookings:

Microsoft Bookings public-facing KA
Microsoft Bookings advanced documentation from Microsoft Support
FAQs:
How does someone use a booking calendar for the first time?

Their department or unit IT must first create a booking calendar for them. You can provide that contact information, which you can find by going to How to find your IT support contact.

How do users create a public page that someone can use to book appointments with them?

They must first choose Booking page from the choices on the right, and then Save and publish. After doing this, they will see the link to their public calendar page, which they can share.

" KB0016241 Connect Connect - Microsoft Unified Support "

Microsoft Unified Support is available only to IT Staff. This comprehensive support service offers several benefits that can improve IT operations and enhance productivity. Staff interested in this are directed to email software@rutgers.edu to activate their Microsoft Unified Support account.

Microsoft Unified Support includes:

Problem resolution support: With Microsoft Unified Support, we have access to a team of highly skilled technical experts who can provide fast and efficient support when issues arise. This can help minimize downtime and ensure that incidents are addressed quickly.
Advisory support: Short-term engagement sessions are designed to help implement Microsoft technologies in ways that avoid common pitfalls.
On-demand assessments: Microsoft Unified Support includes nearly 50 on-demand assessments covering services such as Windows client configuration, SharePoint, and SQL Server.
Access to Microsoft Education: With Microsoft Unified Support, we have access to over 6,000 on-demand videos and step-by-step labs for technologies like PowerShell, Teams, and Azure. Staff can also attend Microsoft-hosted online educational sessions on various topics.
Dedicated Customer Success Manager (CSAM): Microsoft Unified Support provides a single point of contact to coordinate Microsoft support cases and access services not covered under Unified Support.
How to handle these requests

Reassign the Incident to EAS - Connect Technical Support, who will coordinate with the user, as it is a two-step process to activate. They will create the account in Microsoft Hub. The user will then get an email from Microsoft, which can take up to 3 business days. They need to log in with their email to activate the account before Connect Support can assign our agreement to their account.

" KB0017752 Connect Connect - Power BI for students "

The Help desk can enable Power BI for Students that call in requesting access to it.

Only certain FT have access to enable it. Reach out to a supervisor or FT for assistance.

" KB0011686 Connect Connect - Reopen Requests for Student Accounts "

If you audit the user in OpenRegistry and confirm the user has never had a PHI flag, please cut an incident task under EAS - Messaging and Collaboration Services (assignment group) and assign the incident to Bryan Loniewski (netid brylon). Please include the following information in the incident task:

PHI status from OpenRegistry
RU_GRACE_PERIOD end date
Desired re-lock date
If you audit the user in OpenRegistry and the historical data shows that the user once had a PHI flag, please have a supervisor send an email to uec_contact@uec.rutgers.edu with the following information.
The NetID, email address, and name of the student whose emails are being requested.
The specific files (subject, dates, etc.) that are to be accessed or transferred.
The emergent nature of the request.
The name, email address, and phone number of the requestor.
School student separated from and date of separation.

If the request is coming a dean or VP, please note that in the email. This will help UEC (University Ethics and Compliance) identify proper approval for the request.

" KB0014358 Connect Connect - Software License Issues "

Sometimes, installations of Office 365 Suite via ProPlus License fail to assign properly on a user s machine. This tends to occur when a user signs in for the license with their ScarletMail address without properly removing their old account information from a previous subscription. If uninstalling Microsoft Office and reinstalling it does not work, please try the following.

DO NOT allow a user to do this on their own. Any assistance on these steps that is not done in-person is strongly discouraged.

Sign Out

Open Word, Excel, etc. File > Account > Sign out. Then click Yes.

After that, check again to see if old profiles may still be on there.

Remove the credentials from the Credential Manager

(Control Panel > User Accounts > Credential Manager)

Search for Credential Manager in the Control panel > Windows credentials > Microsoft Office 16 > Remove the credentials.

Edit Registry

Edit Registry and Remove the Identities folder - open regedit

Navigate to HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Office\16.0\Common\ Identity\Identities and delete the Identities folder

AND

Navigate to HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Office\ClickToRun\Configuration(string) "SharedComputerLIcensing"="1"

Script

Use CSCRIPT.EXE to remove the license key. You will have to run as Administrator for the next steps.

Run cscript.exe command with the "/dstatus" switch to see if a product key is found. If so, it will report the last few characters of the installed product key. Use that as the XXXX of the "/unpkey" switch. The exact command is below.

The first command will give a product key, the second will clear the key

When BOTH Office and Windows are both either 32 bit or 64 bit, use the following two commands.

cscript.exe "%ProgramFiles%\Microsoft Office\Office16\ospp.vbs" /dstatus

cscript.exe "%ProgramFiles%\Microso? Office\Office16\ospp.vbs" /unpkey:XXXX

Use the following commands when Windows is 64 bit and Office is 32 bit, or vica versa. (try this if the above commands fail)

cscript.exe "%ProgramFiles(x86)%\Microso? Office\Office16\ospp.vbs" /dstatus

cscript.exe "%ProgramFiles(x86)%\Microso? Office\Office16\ospp.vbs" /unpkey:XXXX

" KB0014362 Connect Connect - Spam & Junk Email Filtering "

Rutgers Connect has a very good spam filtering system. Here are some common problems people might encounter. These steps must be followed in the Outlook Web Application (the connect.rutgers.edu website). Spam filtering changes made in a specific mail client, including a desktop copy of Outlook, apply only to those messages found in the Inbox when that mail client is running.

Too much spam/junk email is arriving in the Inbox

Exactly how many spam messages has the person received? 4-5 per day is not unusual.

Select how Outlook should handle new messages you receive.

Connect can handle incoming mail in two different ways, Standard or Strict.

Standard will automatically move any mail identified as possible junk or spam into the Junk Email folder.
Strict will only allow mail from senders and domains that have been marked as safe to be delivered to the inbox.

To view and edit these settings, please follow the steps below:

Click the gear icon.
Under Settings, click Mail.
Find and click Junk Email
Under Incoming Mail Handling select either Standard or Strict.

OIT recommends setting this to Strict if there is an excess of spam or junk email reaching the inbox.

See if a specific sender is allowed to bypass spam filtering.
In the same Junk Email section, under Safe Senders and Domains, see if the sender's address is listed.
If it is, select it, then click the Trash Can icon to delete the address.
Click Save to save and apply the changes.
Marking a message in Inbox as spam / Setting Rules
Select the message.
In the menu bar, select Move, then Junk Email (If the option is not available, type "Junk Email" into the search bar)

Please note that you can also setup rules within Outlook to automatically place all emails from a specific sender into the "Junk Email" Folder.

Blocking an entire domain or address
Copy the address or domain from the sender's email address (the portion after the @ sign).
Open the Junk Email section as described above.
Under Blocked senders and Domains, paste or type the sender's domain into the Enter a sender or domain here box.
Click Add Blocked Sender and paste the senders address or domain.
Click Save to save and apply the changes.
Changing a previously blocked domain or address
Open the Junk Email section as described above.
Under Blocked Senders and Domains, select the address to change.
Click the pencil icon
Edit the selected address to make the changes.
Press the Return key when done.
Click Save to save the changes.

" KB0014189 Email "Email - (IDM) Aliases, Official Rutgers Email Addresses, and Delivery Addresses" "

Aliases

An email alias is a customizable e-mail address which will forward emails to a user's delivery addresses. Aliases are not separate accounts that a user can log into. By default, during activation, the alias will be set to first.lastname@rutgers.edu. The alias must contain a period, start with a letter, and end with @rutgers.edu. If a combination of firstname.lastname is already taken, a number will automatically be added to the end of the address. After account and services activation, the user may modify or set up to a total of 3 Aliases by navigating to User NetID Management > Manage Email Addresses.

NOTE: If a user has chosen to use an alias as their Official Rutgers Email Address, they will not be able to delete it until a different address is used instead.

Delivery Address

All email received by a user's aliases will be sent to their delivery addresses. Users have the option to add a personal email account as an additional delivery option, but all users must have at least one Rutgers email account set as a delivery address. After account and service activation, the user may modify or set up a total of 3 delivery addresses.

NOTE: If a user is Faculty, Staff, or has a PHI = Y flag, they are required to have a Connect account set as their delivery address. They may still set an alias as their Official Rutgers Email Address.

Official Rutgers Email Addresses

Students and Student Workers can only have an official Rutgers email address that ends in @rutgers.edu. Therefore, it must also be one of their aliases. Faculty and Staff can use any valid @rutgers.edu account as their official Rutgers email address (this includes ScarletMail, aliases, and departmental addresses). Users cannot update their official Rutgers email addresses through personalinfo.rutgers.edu - changes can be made through the Manage Email Addresses page. If a user has multiple roles, updating a single official email address will update all of them.

NOTE: After updating an official Rutgers email address, the changes will immediately be reflected in the Manage Email Addresses tool, but it will take 5-10 minutes for these changes to be reflected in search.rutgers.edu.

" KB0014099 Email Email - Abuse & Harassment "

Rutgers has very specific policies about abuse and harassment. Callers or visitors to the Help Desk who complain of abuse or harassment should be treated with compassion and their complaints taken seriously.

If a caller has concerns about any emails or incidents regarding abuse complains, please advise them to contact the Rutgers University Computing Incident Response Team (RU CIRT) at abuse@rutgers.edu. More information about reporting suspected scams, breaches or theft can be found on the Information Security: Resources page.

" KB0014216 Email Email - Personalized Email Address "

Users can create a mail alias for their Rutgers email accounts by navigating to netid.rutgers.edu and selecting Manage Email Addresses on the left-hand side.

Once at the email address management screen, users can click Create New Personalized Email Address to input a new alias email address.

Use the Delivery Addresses box to control which inboxes the emails sent to an alias are delivered to.

Adding an alias does not change the user's listing in OpenRegistry (OR). The user must manually go into personalinfo.rutgers.edu and update their listed email address in the Address Update tab for changes to be reflected in OR.

If a user has a Rutgers Connect email account and would like to send mail as a different alias, they will also have to configure it through netid.rutgers.edu as well by going to the Manage Email Addresses page and locating Rutgers Connect Account Information at the bottom. Within that box, have the user select the desired alias address from the dropdown to the right of the Emails sent from Rutgers Connect will come from: section and then have them select Set Primary Address. Please be aware that the alias addresses are pulled from the ones listed in the Personalized Email Address box and that any changes made to the Connect send as address may take up to 2 hours.

Set accounts to show outbound mail as firstname.lastname@rutgers.edu
Thunderbird (v. 3+)
Open the Tools menu and select Account Settings.
On the left in the new window, select the e-mail account.
On the right, under Default Identity, type the alias in the Email Address: box.
Select OK.
Apple Mail
Open the Mail menu and select Preferences.
In the new window, select Accounts on the top row.
Select Account Information.
Type the alias into the Email Address:
Close the new window and select Save when asked to save changes.
Outlook
Open a new email message.
Select Options.
Select From to enable the From field.
Select the drop down next to From and select Other Email Address.
Enter the alias you would like to send from in the field.
The alias will now be saved for future use.
Mail Application for iPhone/iPad/iPod Touch
Select Settings.
In the Settings screen, select Mail, Contacts, Calendars.
Select the account name (under Accounts at the top).
Replace the contents of the Address box with the alias.
Gmail in Web Browser
Select the gear in the right side of the screen.
Select See all settings.
Select the Accounts and import tab.
Under the Send mail as section, select Add another email address.
A screen will pop up, prompting you to input your alias. Make sure to treat it as an alias.
The next screen will prompt you for the following information:
Smtp Server: smtp.gmail.com
Username: netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu
Password: Mobile IMAP password.
Put a check mark near Secured Connection using TLS
Select Next Step (Send through Rutgers University Mail should be selected).
Select Next once again.
Select Send Verification. You will receive a verification email prompting for a code. Input that code once you receive it.
Select Verify and then close the window.
Users may additionally make the alias their default account to send mail as by clicking on make default.
Aliases for shared accounts (departmental accounts, mailing lists) and non-OIT email accounts

Full-time staff can create additional @rutgers.edu mail aliases for addresses other than those of personal accounts.

Aliases longer than 8 characters or containing punctuation such as periods, dashes, or underscores are permitted.

Aliases can only be delivered to a single address. If someone wants an alias to deliver to multiple addresses, they must first set up some sort of mailing list, either on Mailman or a departmental mail server, and have that mailing list delivered to the requested addresses. Full-time staff can then set the alias to deliver to the mailing list's address.

Aliases do not need to resemble the address to which they deliver unless a) the requested alias looks like a NetID, in which case they must own an account on our systems with that name (as described above), or b) the alias has the potential to confuse (e.g., "academicdean@rutgers.edu" for the Dean of a particular school). In such cases, suggest clearer or non-conflicting alternatives, such as "sebs.dean".

Always speak with a full-time staff member about this before promising that a particular alias will be created.

" KB0014141 Email Email - Phishing "

Phishing is the attempt to steal someone's account or personal information through e-mail masquerading as an official message.

For more details on information security and how to recognize threats like this, please visit the Rutgers IT Information Security Resource page.

Reporting Phishing
For Users

If a user calls in to report they have received a phishing email, instruct the user to forward the email with full headers, ONLY to abuse@rutgers.edu.

Obtaining full headers varies based on the email client. To determine how to obtain full headers, first check what email client the user is utilizing. Then search on Google for how to obtain full headers for the specific email client.

For Consultant/Supervisory Staff

If you personally receive such a message, the message should be forwarded, with full headers to abuse@rutgers.edu, and CC: hd_supervisors@oit.rutgers.edu and operator@oit.rutgers.edu. There is no need to report the same message more than once, so check with a supervisor to see if anyone has already reported such a message that day.

If you or the user don't know how to forward a message with full headers, Google has an Instructions for Gmail and other common mail services page.

To forward headers for webmail clients:

Follow instructions on how to obtain full headers for your specific email client.
Copy the full header to your clipboard.
Paste the text into the forwarding message above the original email text.
Email headers

An email header is the section at the beginning of an email that contains technical and routing information, such as the sender, recipient, subject, date, and unique message ID. While some information is visible to the user, the full header includes details about the email's journey across different servers, making it a useful tool for troubleshooting, verifying sender authenticity, and detecting spam or phishing attempts.

Full email headers include:

The standard fields that are visible in all emails to users
From
To
Subject
Date
Technical details
Message-ID which is a unique identifier for the email.
Delivery path which is a record of every server the email passed through.
Authentication results which are the results of security checks like SPF, DKIM, and DMARC to confirm the sender's authenticity.
Compromised Accounts

Our system administrators keep a close eye on such attempts. Once they learn of a phishing message, they track who sends email back to the address listed in it. Under no circumstances should someone ever reply to such a message. Remind our callers that they should never share their passwords with anyone, nor should they ever send any personal information through e-mail, and that our office will never ask for their passwords.

If the user clicked on a link in the email or responded to the email, then it is strongly suggested that they reset their password. Please let a supervisor know if the user believes their information was compromised, as this may need to be reported to abuse@rutgers.edu.

If the user has a Kerberos lock in the NetID Management Tool, this may be related to the phishing attempt. All calls regarding accounts flagged for phishing should follow the Probshell/Kerblock procedures, and the ticket should be given to a full-time staff member after verification. Full-time staff can follow the Kerblock Checklist procedures to give phishing talks and unlock the account.

" KB0014147 Email Email - Troubleshooting Email Related Issues "

There are a number of things that can go wrong with email. Fortunately, mail servers are set up to send detailed error messages to the sender if they cannot deliver messages, commonly known as "bounceback messages". If a user cannot send mail to someone, check if they received a bounceback message and confirm its contents. Below are examples of the most common types of bounceback messages - sending an email to a nonexistent address in Gmail/ScarletMail or Office365/Connect.

Gmail/ScarletMail







Office365/Connect







As you can see, these messages are very detailed, giving an exact error code and plain text explanation of the issue. To assist a user, it can be beneficial for the user to send a screenshot of the message. Users can send screenshots by directly replying to the email informing them a ticket has been opened for them. When troubleshooting email-related issues, the CAT tool is very resourceful and should be used. If unfamiliar with the CAT tool, reference the CAT getting started documentation.

Once the bounceback email has been received, troubleshooting can begin. Essential questions and scenarios to keep in mind when troubleshooting are as follows:

Is there another way you can confirm the user's email address, such as Rutgers University Search?
Is there a current outage noted in outage_degradation within Slack that might be responsible?
If the user is sending to an alias address, perhaps the alias system is currently experiencing issues. In this case, you can use Rutgers University Search to provide a direct delivery address for the user.
If a user cannot receive mail, the first thing to determine is how they access their email and what method is appropriate for them. You should utilize the CAT tool to see what the user has as their delivery email address.

If the user is a staff or faculty member trying to use ScarletMail instead of Connect, you must direct them to utilize their Connect account.
If the user is a student who thinks they use Connect as their email client and is not associated with RBHS, they should be using ScarletMail, and you need to direct them to the appropriate mailbox. If the student is affiliated with RBHS, ensure they log in with the correct UPN found within the CAT tool.

For further troubleshooting, please refer to the Rutgers Connect and ScarletMail knowledge base.

" KB0014156 Five9 Five9 - Fac/Staff overflow calls procedure "

When users call the Faculty/Staff Help Desk and wait more than 2 minutes, some callers will receive a message offering the option to transfer to a student worker. This option will only be made available to users who indicated that their issues are related to NetID/password, ScarletMail, Webex, or Connect.

If a user opts to be transferred to a student worker, the call will be transferred to an available Level 1 consultant. You are expected to assist these users to the best of your ability.

If their issue is not something you can assist with and requires the support of a Faculty/Staff Help Desk staff member, you can redirect the call to the FSHD using MAX's internal transfer option labeled "Faculty Staff Overflow Return".

Please remember that this option is only to be used when returning an overflow call back to FSHD and not when transferring users who called into the Student Help Desk.

When it has been determined that the call will need to be redirected in this manner, the following response can be used to inform the user:

I am sorry, as a student worker I do not have access to the tools required to assist with that issue. I will need to transfer you back to the Faculty Staff Help Desk. You will be transferred to the next available agent.



" KB0014111 Five9 Five9 - Phone Call Etiquette "

When answering the phone it is always important to introduce yourself as well as the place of where the user is calling into. In addition, within the first minutes of the phone call, it is important to also gather information about the user such as their NetID, full name, call back phone number and email. Below is a sample script in order to have an efficient and professional phone call.

Start the phone call by saying:

Thank you for calling the [LOCATION]. This is [YOUR FIRST NAME HERE]. May I please have the spelling of your NetID?"
(Or, if callers don t know their NetIDs or they haven t yet created one, ask for the spelling of their first and last name). When repeating back spelling to a user, it is important to use the NATO alphabet.
Note: If you cannot find the user in ServiceNow by their last name, it is possible they do not yet have a NetID. You may create a ticket under Guest.
Once you've confirmed the spelling of the NetID or user's name, get the user's phone number. You may do this by saying:

"May I have a phone number where you can be reached in case we get disconnected?"

It is always important to repeat the phone number back to the user to ensure the phone number is correct.
Next, ask for the user's email address. You may ask for the user's email by saying:

"Thank you and may I have a current e-mail address where we can send your ticket confirmation to?"
If the user is a Guest, this will be entered in the "alternate contact information" section of the ticket.
After that, ask the user if they have called about the issue before or have an existing ticket number by asking:

"Have you called about this issue before and if so, do you already have a ticket number?"
If the user states no, please continue with creating a new ticket.
If the answer is yes, look for a previous ticket about this issue and review that ticket. If the ticket was created recently and is still open, you should continue commenting on that ticket (i.e. do not create a new ticket).
If the ticket is closed, you should review it briefly for troubleshooting tips. Then, cut a new ticket and begin annotating your troubleshooting steps in the new ticket.

Remember to speak clearly and at a pace that's comfortable for your callers. Be patient with callers who may not be native speakers of English. If the user has trouble understanding a word, spell it using the NATO phonetic alphabet (e.g. A as in Alpha, B as in Bravo, etc.). Only after you complete the above steps should you begin troubleshooting the user s problem.

Note: Some users may be put off by what they perceive as a bureaucratic delay and try rushing directly to the problem. Try to avoid letting yourself be directed in this way. It is a reasonable expectation that when people call a support line for any issue, technical or non-technical, they often must give this kind of information to get the best possible service. If we do not get a contact number and the call drops, the user will have to wait in the queue again. If we do not have a valid email, they will not get a feedback form.

" KB0017656 Five9 Five9 - Phone Tree "

" KB0017642 Five9 Five9 - User guide "

Five9 is a software based phone system that processes calls using either phone audio or designated external phone. Five9 will be our new our new VCC (Virtual Contact Center) that is replacing Verizon.

Table of Contents
Logging in
Receiving a Call
Outbound Call
Hold and Mute
Warm Transfer
Cold Transfer
Ending Call
Logging Out
Logging in
Log into ServiceNow.
Click Service Operations Workspace.




Click the phone icon in the top right corner.
Click SSO Log In





You'll automatically be logged in via SSO.
Choose PSTN.
Enter the PSTN number listed on the sticker on your desk phone formatted as: +1 PSTN
If not at a desk phone you can enter the number of any phone in place of the PTSN.
Under Connect to Station click Yes.
Click Confirm.




The phone with the number you entered will receive a call. Answer it and you will hear 3 quick beeps to confirm it has connected properly.
Once you hear the beeps you can hang up the call on your phone.
For Level 2 and above: you'll always be prompted to select the Skills that you will be using. The first time you login, you'll have to check off the appropriate skills, these preferences will be saved for the next time you login. Update your list accordingly so the following skills are the only ones check marked. Click Confirm when done. (note: OIT_Supervisors line is now called OIT_Level3; and the IT Direct line is OIT_Level3ITD)
Level 2
OIT_Backup
OIT_General
OIT_ITS_NB
OIT_Level3_AH
OIT_LMS_Facstaff
OIT_LMS_student
OIT_NB_AH
OIT_NB_General
OIT_Outbound
OIT_RSDM
OIT_SON
Level 3 Assistant Supervisors
OIT_Backup
OIT_Level3
OIT_Level3_AH
OIT_NB_AH
OIT_Outbound
OIT_RSDM
OIT_SON
Level 3 Help Desk CSQ Supervisors
OIT_Backup
OIT_Level3
OIT_Level3_AH
OIT_Level3_ITD
OIT_NB_AH
OIT_Outbound
OIT_RSDM
OIT_SON
The first time you log in, everyone will need to disable the Automatic Answering options from the Settings.
Note: You may need to disable third party storage partitioning in Chrome to launch the Settings menu.




Use the Ready state when you are ready to start taking calls.
Receiving a Call
You must be in the Ready state to receive calls.
When you receive a call, your phone will ring.
If you're phone has a headset connected:
Click Accept and you'll automatically be connected to the call over your headset.
If your phone does not have a headset connected:
The Accept button will be greyed out. You'll automatically be connected to the call once you answer your phone.
A new ServiceNow Interaction will pop up with the caller data.

If you do not answer or click Accept in time, the call will go back in the queue and your state will be automatically put into the Not Ready status.

Outbound Call
Select New Call
Input the name or number of the new participant
Choose the correct Campaign (OIT - Outbound)
Click Dial to start the call


Hold and Mute

Activating Hold will temporarily pause the conversation, during which hold music will be played for the caller.

Activating Mute will silence your microphone, resulting in silence for the caller on the other end.

Warm Transfer
Select Conference.
Input the name or number of the new participant.
Choose Warm.
Click Speak with Participant to temporarily place the initial caller on hold and talk with the new participant.
After the new participant answers, click Add Participant to conference them into the conversation.
Confirm all parties can now speak with each other.




To end a conference call, you could either:
Click Leave Conference to drop from the call. This option will keep the other callers connected.
Click on the participant name or number and choose Remove to remove one participant.
Click End Call to disconnect everyone.



Note: To receive a transferred call, you need to be in the Ready or Not Ready - Outbound Call state.

Cold Transfer
Select Transfer.
Input the name or number of the new participant.
Choose Cold.
Change timeout duration to zero. This will make the receiving agent s station ring until the call is answered or the user hangs up.
Click Complete Transfer.
Select Disposition and choose Complete Transfer.



Note: To receive a transferred call, you need to be in the Ready state.

Ending Call
Click End Call.
You will disconnect with the user and be required to select a Disposition before ending the Interaction.
While choosing a Disposition, you will be in a Wrap Up state.
Finish up any work needed on the Interaction/Incident before proceeding.
Once done, choose a disposition and click End Interaction.
After ending the Interaction, you will be reverted back to your previous state.


Logging Out

Please note that closing the Five9 Adapter does not log you out of the phones, instead it minimizes the display. Click on the phone icon to re-open the Adapter.

To sign out of the Five9 Adapter, click on the power button to the left of the agent state.

You can change where the Adapter is positioned on the three dots in the right hand corner.

" KB0016896 General General - Changes to Television Services "

Rutgers has significantly updated the television services provided on campus in January 2024. In response to the evolving media landscape and changing viewing habits, Rutgers phased out traditional cable television service. This change affected both residential areas, including rooms and apartments, and public spaces throughout the university.

Discontinuation of Traditional Cable Television Service

As of January 2024, Rutgers has discontinued traditional cable television service in all on-campus residence hall rooms, apartments, and community lounge spaces.

Supporting Access to Streaming Services

There is a comprehensive guide of available streaming plans that offer either free content or attractive student discounts.

These options are tailored for use on personal devices within the residential buildings. To use these plans, students must show proof of current enrollment at Rutgers.

New IPTV Streaming Service
Residence Halls

Internet Protocol television (IPTV) streaming service will be made available in the public lounges of the residence halls. This innovative streaming service of over 80 channels brings a diverse range of programming.

Departments responsible for other public spaces

Local Departmental IT can setup this new IPTV streaming service is spaces they are responsible for. They can follow the instructions in the Activation Guide on how to set it up.

Additional Questions

If any questions need to be routed, you can direct these students to the IP&O Central Service Center at 848-445-1234. The IP&O Central Service Center will have FAQs to help them further navigate the inquiry with the student.

" KB0017464 General General - enhanced Institutional Review Board (IRB) system (eIRB+) "

The mission of the Human Research Protection Program (HRPP) is to support the University's research enterprise by ensuring the protection of individuals who participate in research; ensuring compliance with all pertinent federal and state laws and regulations; fostering the ethical conduct of human subjects research; and providing education and other services related to regulatory requirements and best practices to Rutgers researchers.

An Institutional Review Board (IRB) ensures the protection of the rights and welfare of human research subjects based on the rules and regulations of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Department of Health and Human Services (specifically Office for Human Research Protections) by approving, requiring modifications in, or disapproving Human Subject Research projects.

Faculty and Staff make use of the eIRB+ system to document the process and receive the necessary approvals for their research.

Support requests for the eIRB+ system should be directed to the contact emails below:

IRB Submission Help:
IRBOffice@research.rutgers.edu

IT Tech Support:
eirb@research.rutgers.edu

eIRB Training Workshops:
HSPP/IRB Educational Resources | Rutgers Research

eIRB+ manuals and user guides can be found on their website:
eIRB Manuals and User Guides

" KB0014153 General General - Expense Management and other Oracle Financial Management System apps "

If users call in about issues with Expense Management or other Oracle Financial Management System apps, in most cases they should be directed to contact cloudaccess@finance.rutgers.edu.

If they are inquiring about a specific user's access to the Oracle Cloud Financial Management System, please be sure they have the user s 8-digit Employee ID number and NetID.

Expense Management and Finance Approver Change forms are generally processed within 24 hours of receipt.
Finance Approver Change Uploads may take longer to complete.
Notifications will be sent when General and Central Access requests and Tableau Account requests have been completed.

If a user has specific questions about changing Approvers, see below for the best contact for them to use:

Finance Approvers (for Expense Management and Journal Entries) are administered by cloudaccess@finance.rutgers.edu.
Help Desk: finance_helpcenter@finance.rutgers.edu
FMS Forms: https://uco.rutgers.edu/forms-repository
Project Approvers are administered by the Chart of Accounts team coa@finance.rutgers.edu
Project Forms: https://uco.rutgers.edu/forms-repository
MarketPlace Approvers are administered by Procurement. Help Desk: procure@finance.rutgers.edu
MarketPlace Forms: https://procurementservices.rutgers.edu/policies-forms/forms-repository

" KB0018909 General General - Expired Website Certificates "

Departmental IT are responsible for maintaining active certificates for websites associated with their departments. If a department website has a certificate error or is expired, redirect the incident to the Departmental IT if they are in ServiceNow, or notify them through their relevant contact information. They can then work with the SSL group, if needed, to renew their certificates. More information is available to them in the SSL Certificate KA.

" KB0014157 General General - Freshman iPad Program "

What is the iPad Program?

The Chancellors of Rutgers- New Brunswick and Rutgers-Newark launched an initiative to distribute iPad Air 256GB devices. This program is in partnership with SHI, who assisted in securing the devices and handled all fulfillment. The devices were customized to include Rutgers-approved apps and web links to be used as resources throughout the students' time at Rutgers, such as the Rutgers Mobile App, Blackboard, Canvas, Google Suite, Microsoft Suite, and more. Note: This program has been discontinued.

Note: Once a user registered for a free iPad, their NetID/ScarletMail account was associated with the MDM profile. Therefore, if they have a smart phone or tablet with an RU profile already installed, the phone/tablet will try to sync with the profile. They would see extra apps installed on their phone/tablet even if they had not yet received their free iPad. To avoid this, they would've needed to delete the profile from their phone/tablet if they did not want the devices to sync. This will also occur when they buy a device in the future and still have their NetID/ScarletMail account associated with the MDM profile and install an RU profile on the new device.

Official wording for why MDM cannot be removed from iPad:

The iPad was gifted to enrolled first-year students as a tool to keep students connected to campus, to the Scarlet Knight community, and to assist with coursework. With a Rutgers-managed device, all resources and Rutgers-approved technology is automatically pushed to your iPad to assist with your transition to college life. Given the purpose of this iPad, Rutgers management can not be removed.

The management profile will only be removed once a student is no longer associated with the university (i.e. a student transfers, graduates, etc.). To remove the profile the device will have to be wiped to factory settings. The management profile does not track your usage and you can use your iPad for non-Rutgers purposes. You also have complete access to the app store to purchase or download any applications you choose. A Supervisor or FT can follow up if the device does not allow for removal of the profile.

" KB0014171 General General - Handshake Login "

To login to Rutgers Handshake, users can go to the Handshake Login Site.

Handshake is now using CAS for logins.

Current students will use CAS (NetID and Password) to log in. Alumni who graduated before May 2013 need to request an account by filling out the Rutgers Handshake Alumni Account Request Form.
Previous Alumni will use their current (non-CAS) login information. Alumni will need to create a login if they do not have one. They will be taken through setting up a new account (again non-CAS) for the new site, which will then be used to log in.
For those that use CAS logins, Career Exploration and Success (CES) expects that the Help Desk will troubleshoot CAS password issues and if it is not a NetID password issue to refer them to their office.
For those who do not use CAS logins, we are to refer them to the CES office.
CES Contact Information

Technical Assistance for Online Career Tools:

Email: careers@echo.rutgers.edu

Phone: 848-932-0144

Additional Contact Information for CES

" KB0011772 General General - Job Scam Notice "

The ScarletMail system admins may email FT & Case Notes with an email similar to the below when they notice students conversing with known scam addresses/mail content that is determined to be a scam. One such notice is included below.

When we receive such a notice, it is our job to reach out to the affected user and inform them they were conversing with known scammers and the resources available for identity theft protection.

Create a ServiceNow Incident for Guest
Alternate Contact Information: use N/A or - for all fields
Service Offering: ScarletMail
Short Description: Notice Regarding Employment Scam
Description: blank
Assign to relevant Assignment Group you are in, and assign to yourself.
Include original email from system admins in Work Notes.
The notification to the user(s) should be sent via an email message (see example below) with each user BCC'd on the message. If the system admins provide extra information (i.e. other links that can be provided to the user) the message can be modified with that information.
In the Response Tool there is a template called Help@ Notice Regarding Employment Scam which should be used.
Once we have emailed the users, please reply-all to the message from the system admins informing them we have reached out to the users.
The incident can then be resolved.



" KB0017936 General General - LabArchives Issues "

LabArchives is a third-party application that uses Rutgers SSO. Anyone without the proper license receives an error message and will be directed to "contact the university help desk." Unfortunately, LabArchives does not allow that message to be customized.

Any Help Desk tickets related to LabArchives access should be triaged to their assignment group in ServiceNow: OARC - LabArchives/ELN. They will then follow up with the individual and resolve any incidents related to this system.

" KB0016874 General General - Library Resource & Service Access "

Who has access
Faculty/Staff/Students

Faculty, Staff, and Students may access online library services using their NetID login information. Checking out books is done using your physical Rutgers ID card. Current Faculty, Staff, and Students have access to the full suite of online library services.

New Faculty/Staff can check out items up to one month in advance of their start date. This requires either a Rutgers ID card, or other proof of current employment to be provided to the front desk of their desired library.

Course reserves

If a Senior Auditor in a course wants to access a resource on reserve, the faculty member or the auditors themselves provide the library their NetID and they will enter them into the file so they can have access to e-reserves. Kay Schechter in the Senior Auditor office is aware of the process. She requires each auditor to obtain an RU ID card and NetID. She handles the activation of the NetID.

Course reserves for students are available through the Reading List in students' Canvas courses. They can also be searched for directly within the reading list tool.

Alumni, Guests, Retirees, and Faculty Emeriti

Individuals who have an ALUMNI, GUEST, or Retiree GUEST roles can not access restricted library services online. They, and members of the general public, can continue to use the services from an on-campus location where login is not required. Faculty Emeriti may use their Rutgers login information to access library resources.

Accessing library facilities

Rutgers University Libraries include libraries, centers, and collections at physical facilities distributed across the Rutgers campuses. The following pages contain more information for each particular campus:

Visit and Study at Camden
Visit and Study at Newark
Visit and Study at New Brunswick
Visit and Study at the Health Sciences

In general, most libraries allow any individual to enter their facilities; however, individuals may be asked to show the contents of their backpacks, bags, or briefcases. Additionally, some library locations limit access to Rutgers students, faculty, and staff during late night and weekend hours - which would require a Rutgers identification card for admittance.

Accessing library services

The Libraries' online services are available to current faculty, students, staff, and faculty emeriti of the university. These individuals can access the services through their NetID login information. Some of these services include:

Booking A Space
Interlibrary Loans
Contacting Subject Specialists
Course Reserves
Databases

Anyone may use Ask A Librarian, the electronic reference service, wherever they are located. Anyone with Rutgers borrowing privileges may use My Account to view their library record and renew their books online. University affiliates may also qualify to request Rutgers materials, use instructional services, and article deliveries.

Borrowing privileges and library access

Current faculty, students, staff, and emeriti can check out books by using their physical Rutgers ID card and may access online library services using their NetID login information. Current faculty, students, staff, and emeriti have access to the full suite of online library services. Non-university affiliates may be granted guest borrower statuses at the libraries - where they would have to check in with the Library's Borrow and Return policies.

New Faculty/Staff can check out items up to one month in advance of their start date. This requires either a Rutgers ID card or other proof of current employment to be provided to the front desk of their desired library.

" KB0014205 General General - LinkedIn Learning "

What is LinkedIn Learning?

LinkedIn Learning (the upgraded platform of Lynda.com, shutdown in 2021) features thousands of video tutorials and training resources about business, technology, and creative skills. LinkedIn Learning offers industry-leading content and courses taught by expert instructors in leadership, project management, graphic design, photography, software development, and more. Courses range from beginner to advanced levels and can be taken to obtain a professional certificate or learn more about a personal hobby.

Who can access this service?

Rutgers provides free access to LinkedIn Learning for active Faculty, Staff, Students, and Guests.

Qualifying members of the university login to LinkedIn Learning using their NetID and password. KB0012583 is available for assistance with logging into LinkedIn Learning.

How can individuals get additional help?

If you have confirmed that a person knows their NetID and password but still cannot log in to LinkedIn Learning, you may open an incident task with ESD - Software Site Licensing for further escalation. If you are unfamiliar with opening incident tasks, reach out to a supervisor or a full-time staff member.

Important notes

If an individual has a personal LinkedIn Learning account, they should make a Rutgers LinkedIn Learning account to switch back and forth between their personal and Rutgers account to transfer history. For additional information, LinkedIn Learning provides a knowledge article on how to switch accounts and to transfer their account history.

" KB0019436 General General - OIT Full Time (FT) Supervisor List "

Table of Contents
Help Desk Full-Time
Ben Kelder
Joseph Sikorski
Jonathan Bar-Or
Joseph Donato
Marissa Guerrero
Mike Hitchcock
Takanari Hori
Labs Full-Time
Cassandra Sannino
Cody Burke
Leroy Wilkins
Robert Brokaw
Shanna Spurlock
Stacey Sita
Winnie Ling Luper
Associate Director
Elizabeth McMillion
OIT FT Organization Tree
Entire Organizational Tree
Student Support Organizational Tree
Help Desk Full-Time
Ben Kelder
Help Desk Full-Time Supervisor

Come To Me for: QA's, PTS, and CR's

Fun Fact: I competitively speed-run video games!

Joseph Sikorski
Help Desk Full-Time Supervisor

Come To Me for: Knowledge articles, Connect, or Qualtrics

Fun Fact: I love doing Spartan Races!

Jonathan Bar-Or
Help Desk Full-Time Supervisor

Come To Me for: Scheduling questions

Fun Fact: I have the cutest sweaters!

Joseph Donato
Help Desk Full-Time Supervisor

Come To Me for: Anything

Fun Fact: Did competitive ballroom dancing for 6 years!

Marissa Guerrero
Help Desk Full-Time Supervisor

Come To Me for: Training, events and payroll questions

Fun Fact: My favorite Sanrio character is Keroppi!

Mike Hitchcock
Help Desk Full-Time Manager

Come To Me for: Anything!

Fun Fact: I have over 30 rescued animals!

Takanari Hori
Help Desk Full-Time Supervisor

Come To Me for: Tech + Engagement events!

Fun Fact: I love to cook! (Come to me for recipe ideas)

Labs Full-Time
Cassandra Sannino
CAC/LIV Labs Full-Time Supervisor

Come To Me for: College Ave/Livingston Lab Questions

Fun Fact: I'm a Pisces!


Cody Burke
B/CD Full-Time Supervisor

Come To Me for: Busch/Cook-Doug Labs and stories of how we did things 20 years ago.

Fun Fact: I once had a tiger sit on my lap!


Leroy Wilkins
CAC/LIV Labs Full-Time Manager

Come To Me for: Anything at all!

Fun Fact: I'm both a Philadelphia Eagles and NY Yankees fan!

Robert Brokaw

CAC/LIV Labs Full-Time Supervisor

Come To Me for: CAC/LIV, After-Hours and Training Questions

Fun Fact: I sell Pok mon cards on the side, and I'm a Lakers fan!

Shanna Spurlock
B/CD/Help Desk Full-Time Supervisor

Come To Me for: ITS, KA, NetID Merges, or anything else!

Fun Fact: I find biochemistry and neurology interesting!


Stacey Sita
B/CD Full-Time Supervisor

Come To Me for: Busch/Cook Doug Lab questions and Qualtrics issues.

Fun Fact: I met my wife at the labs!


Winnie Ling Luper
B/CD Full-Time Manager

Come To Me for: Payroll/ZED questions or anything at all

Fun Fact: Rutgers is my life- My husband, daughter, and brother work at RU, and we all attended RU as well. My twins will be attending SOE and SEBS- class of 2030!

Associate Director
Elizabeth McMillion
Associate Director, Help Desk and Labs

Come To Me for: Escalated or strange issues.

Fun Fact: I was in a Broadway play.

OIT FT Organization Tree
Entire Organizational Tree

Click to download the full OIT FT Organization Tree .png (updated 05/2026).

Student Support Organizational Tree





" KB0014321 General General - Qualtrics Support "

Login

To log in or to set up an account, go to rutgers.qualtrics.com. The user will be directed to CAS to enter their NetID and password. If they have not already accepted it, the user will then be prompted to review and accept the Qualtrics terms of service by clicking "I understand" before they can continue; otherwise, they will be sent directly to Qualtrics. If the user can see the terms of service page but is not redirected to Qualtrics after agreeing, have them try going to rutgers.qualtrics.com to restart the authentication process.

Troubleshooting

For general troubleshooting, search the Qualtrics Support website since it contains detailed step by step instructions: qualtrics.com/support.

For more information about Qualtrics, see it.rutgers.edu/qualtrics or check the Qualtrics KB.

Access Surveys

To access an existing project or survey on Qualtrics, contact the person running that project or survey in order to get access. The owner must add them as a collaborator in order to access the survey. If they do not know the owner, reassign Incident to NB-HD - Qualtrics to investigate.

Transfer Ownership

Follow instructions on this article to gather required information and reassign to NB-HD - Qualtrics.

User groups

Only Rutgers brand admins can create/manage user groups. View this article for instructions.

Escalating

If you are unsure how to answer a Qualtrics question and it isn't covered by the documentation linked above, speak with a FT staff member. Most questions regarding how to set up or use Qualtrics are handled by the Help Desk, although questions regarding licensing, survey ownership, or Rutgers-based issues may be reassigned to the NB-HD - Qualtrics assignment group.

If it is a complex technical troubleshooting issue, users may contact Qualtrics Support directly for expert help by following these instructions.

" KB0014323 General General - RAD (Rutgers Active Directory) "

The Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) managed environment is based on Active Directory by Microsoft. All users within RAD have RAD admins in place to support them. The Help Desks should follow the guidance below for any user questions they may receive.

Those with access to CAT can search for the delegated admins of a specific computer that is connected to RAD and view all RAD admins associated with the OUs.



RAD Support - General Users
Account locked out / Can't log in to a machine on RAD

RAD accounts will only be locked out after 50 login attempts. The locks last 15 minutes. A possible cause of 50 login attempts could be a script continuously running that is using cached credentials. Users who are locked in RAD should be directed to their local RAD admin. If a RAD admin cannot be located, the Help Desk can send mail to rad-support@oit.rutgers.edu for assistance.

Forgot password

RAD uses the standard NetID and password. The user should be directed to reset their password at netid.rutgers.edu

Network drives
Users may need access given or removed for a user
Users may have existing access, but trouble connecting
Users may need help accessing from home
Users may need help retrieving backup or previous version of file

If a user is having any of the above issues with network drives on RAD, they should be directed to their RAD admins. If a RAD admin cannot be located, the Help Desk can send mail to rad-support@oit.rutgers.edu for assistance.

Network Printers

Problems with connection/installation/troubleshooting

If a user is having any of the above issues with network drives on RAD, they should be directed to their RAD admins. If a RAD admin cannot be located, the Help Desk can send mail to rad-support@oit.rutgers.edu for assistance.

Connection issues at login not related to account

If a user is having the issue above, they should be directed to their RAD admins. If a RAD admin cannot be located, the Help Desk can send mail to rad-support@oit.rutgers.edu for assistance.



RAD Support - RAD Admins

We may receive calls from domain administrators regarding this service. If you receive a call from a non-IT staff member regarding RAD, have them speak to their IT staff. However, we do have the following support guidance in the event that IT support calls in looking for assistance. Information can also be found at:

Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) page

Email address: rad-support@oit.rutgers.edu

ServiceNow Assignment Group: EAS - Rutgers Active Directory

If a RAD Admin calls the Help Desk looking for assistance please follow the procedure below:
For regular hours connect the OU Admin to RAD support. (2-hour response time)
Create a ticket in the EAS - Rutgers Active Directory assignment group
Send an email to rad-support@oit.rutgers.edu with the ticket number.
Escalated issues call directly.
Off-hours connect the OU Admin to RAD support. (response next morning)
Create a ticket in the EAS - Rutgers Active Directory assignment group
Send an email to rad-support@oit.rutgers.edu with the ticket number.
Escalate for enterprise-wide outages call directly.
How to Reset RAD Admin Password

If a user needs to reset their RAD Admin password they can do so by following the below instructions:

Direct the user to NetID Management page
Select Manage NetID Password from the left column
Log in with NetID and Password.
Select RAD Admin Account on the left
Log in with their NetID and Password
Once logged in they will be presented with a password change screen for the RAD admin account
How to Request RAD Admin Access (Elevated Access)
The requester can go to Rutgers RAD Admin Request System and submit their request.
Once the request is processed, the requester will need to log into the NetID Management page, and they will see an option for their ADM account.
They will need to set up their ADM account password before we're able to see that they have a RAD admin account in our NetID Management Tool.



NOTE:

There were some manually created ADM accounts that existed before the IDM website was setup.

If someone had an ADM account prior to the website going up they would still have to go through the process to request an ADM account. Instead of creating a new one, it would associate the existing one with their NetID account.

They should visit this site Rutgers RAD Admin Request System, and go through the steps to request it.

Once this process has been completed, they will then see the option for ADM account when they log into NetID Management page, and it should also be available in LDAP.



" KB0014324 General General - Raspberry Pi OS/Linux install "

Raspberry Pi OS

Raspberry Pi OS (formerly Raspbian) is slightly different from other Linux OSs. Flashing it onto a SD card or USB drive will have the machine boot directly into the OS rather than an installer (a traditional desktop OS like Windows or CentOS will boot into an installer to install the OS onto a hard drive).

The following steps should be done on a separate machine (Ex: a laptop with an SD card slot like the Resnet laptops. You may need an adapter from microSD to standard SD).

To install Raspberry Pi OS, download the ISO (zip in this case) file of choice from the Raspberry Pi software page; there are three different packages (Note: Current versions run on Debian 12/Bookworm at the time of writing but this is subject to change with new updates):
Raspberry Pi OS with desktop and recommended software
This is the heaviest version of Raspberry Pi OS. The OS comes bundled with the full software suite - this includes software like LibreOffice, Minecraft, VNC Viewer and more. If not everything included in this package is needed (most of these are games or programming environments and can be installed later if needed) check the versions below.
Raspberry Pi OS with desktop
This version only includes the base OS. It has some software such as PDF viewers, Chromium, and video players, but does not include any of the additional software listed above - though they can always be installed individually later.
Raspberry Pi OS Lite
The lightest version of Raspberry Pi OS. This is a headless (terminal only) install. Only use this version if the SD card is 4GB or less, or battery life is of concern, and you know what you are doing without a GUI.
Download and Install BalenaEtcher. The Resnet laptops will have BalenaEtcher installed.
Once BalenaEtcher is opened, select the Raspberry Pi OS ISO that you downloaded, select the SD/USB to flash it onto, and press Flash.
Once it s done flashing, insert the drive into the Raspberry Pi and boot. It should load into Raspberry Pi OS on its own.

If the device does not boot into the desktop, you can find troubleshooting steps here.

Other Linux OS

Follow the same steps above, except you will be downloading the OS from its respective site and step 4 is now:

Insert the drive into the machine that will be using the OS. Boot from the USB/SD card and follow the installation instructions. Make sure to install the OS onto the correct hard drive, otherwise you will wipe all data already on the drive.

" KB0014348 General General - RUHere Campaign "

A student will be considered enrolled if they complete the RUHere process, whether or not the student has submitted a term bill or has an outstanding balance. All registered students who log into a website utilizing the Central Authentication Service (CAS) will be automatically redirected to a RUHere dialog box (pop-up) prior to the start of each term. All students must indicate either Yes or No to the RUHere question to verify their intention to enroll for the given semester.

Below is a screenshot of the RUHere prompt:

If a student responds Yes to the RUHere dialog, they will be considered enrolled, financial aid will be disbursed to their account, and they will not be deregistered for classes for non-payment or an open balance on their term bill. If a student responds No to the RUHere dialog, they will be considered not enrolled, financial aid will not disburse and their registration will be canceled at the conclusion of the add/drop period.

Please note that this semester, all students will receive a confirmation email whether they selected yes or no to the campaign. Below are sample messages that will be generated by the system for students who respond based on the Spring 2019 semester:

System generated message for students who respond no from email: ruhere@rutgers.edu: Subject: Confirmation of RUHere Process Thank you for completing the RU Here process. Based on our records, you do NOT plan to attend the spring 2019 semester. As a result, your course registration will be cancelled. For information on the withdrawaln policy and process, visit our website at studentabc.rutgers.edu. We would like to know more about what prevented you from attending this semester. Please take a few minutes to provide your feedback. If your intentions have changed, and you plan to attend the spring 2019 semester, email ruhere@rutgers.edu.Thank you, The RUHere Implementation Team
System generated message for students who respond yes from email: ruhere@rutgers.edu. Subject: RUHere | Successful Completion Thank you for completing the RUHere process and confirming your attendance for spring 2019. We would greatly appreciate feedback on your experience. Please take a few minutes to complete the following survey. We look forward to hearing from you. Thank you, The RUHere Implementation Team

If a student does not respond to the RUHere question, they will not be able to proceed to the destination website and will be blocked from accessing any application that requires CAS authentication, including, but not limited to email, myRutgers, and learning management systems (Canvas).

Some students may also see a pop up asking them to agree to the Financial Responsibility Statement (FRS). Most students will have already agreed to the FRS by the time the RUHere campaign starts because it is required to agree to the FRS before viewing your term bill. Below is a screenshot for the FRS statement:

You can also tell how and when the user responded to the campaign by using the "Audit Campaigns" option in the NetID Management Admin Tool. Below is a sample screenshot from the NetID Management Admin Tool.

If a user has any questions regarding what these campaigns mean OR if they want to change the answer they have provided, please direct them to email ruhere@rutgers.edu. Technical issues with the RUHere campaign should be directed to idm_support@email.rutgers.edu. If technical issues arise with RUHere, please be sure to note this in Slack so that we can coordinate support procedures.

" KB0014351 General "General - RutAdmin (IMS, Mocha TN3270)" "

RutAdmin systems are back-end systems used to track various important administrative data or functions.

RutAdmin Accounts, Access, Passwords, etc.

This is handled by EAS. Contact EAS Access Management staff by phone or email at: 848-445-7544 or eas_systemaccess@email.rutgers.edu.

Mocha TN3270 Terminal Client for RutAdmin

We support the download and installation of Mocha TN3270, a terminal client used by RutAdmin, available on the Software Portal.

Help callers through the online instructions depending on their OS: Mac or Windows.
Mocha TN3270 Terminal Client requires the use of a SecureID (Enigma) Card. The pick up process can be found in the SecurID Tokens public knowledge article.
Notes: As primary support for RutAdmin issues is provided by ACS through Loretta, the Help Desk lacks the necessary system access, and is therefore limited in the ability to provide more than basic support. Additionally, some older installations use QWS3270; documentation for installing this client can be found using KB0012572.

" KB0014365 General General - Rutgers ID (RUID) Card Office Locations "

To assist users with Rutgers ID (RUID) Cards, always reference the IPO Identity Access Management site. This site is consistently updated and is the most accurate.

It is important to note that the Busch Post Office is ONLY for RBHS Students. All other students should go to the respective locations listed for their campus. RBHS Faculty/Staff must have their ID cards issued from the Administrative Services Building (ASB) II. The Rutgers IPO ID Card Locations site for Student IDs, Staff and Faculty, Retiree, and Guest IDs also redirects to maps that can be sent to the user.

For all ID card issues, please refer to the IPO's FAQ page for commonly encountered issues.

Other information and contacts for identity and access management can be found on the IPO Identity Access Management site.

" KB0014366 General General - Rutgers ID Numbers (RUID) "

Rutgers ID Numbers (RUID) are considered sensitive information and should be treated as such. RUIDs are not to be given out to callers; therefore, consultants may only confirm or deny whether the RUID the user is providing is correct. If a user does not have an active NetID or cannot log in to the MyRutgers Portal, they should contact the Registrar for their appropriate campus.

Former Rutgers Students, Current Summer & Winter session students ONLY can use the RUID Query Tool.

For further information, you may reference the ScarletHub site on RUID information.

To find your RUID, please follow the steps below:

Go to MyRutgers Portal
Navigate to Dashboard.
Navigate to the widget with your Profile Picture.
Your RUID number will be displayed below your NetID.

" KB0014379 General General - search.rutgers.edu "

Search.rutgers.edu is a great way to help locate resources within the Rutgers Community. The page allows users to search for people, websites, buildings, and RBHS faculty and staff. The tool is available to the public and can be used to look up contact information, find helpful links, and obtain building addresses.

Note: For machines with an IP address that are not in the RU network, search.rutgers.edu will not allow them to perform more than 200 searches in a 24-hr period. There is an exceptions list, and there may be a way for Administrative Computing Services (ACS) Database Admins (DBAs) to manually unlock someone.

" KB0014381 General General - Senior Citizen Audit Program "

This special program was created by the Rutgers University Board of Governors to permit retired New Jersey residents, age 62 or older, to attend courses on a space-available, noncredit basis. There are no tuition costs for auditing courses.

Only courses offered during the spring and fall semesters on the Camden, Newark, or New Brunswick campuses are open to auditors. No other courses offered at the university are available under the Senior Citizen Audit Program, therefore Winter Session and Summer Session courses are not covered by this program. Additionally, the cost of textbooks is not included in the program.
Auditors are permitted to audit on-line courses.
Courses listed as closed in the online Schedule of Classes those that have reached maximum capacity are not open to auditors.
Auditing is a courtesy offered at the discretion of the professor. If the professor informs the Auditor that auditors are not permitted, they will need to select another course.
Deadlines to submit the Permission-to-Audit Form as well as other forms can be found on the Senior Citizen Audit Program website.
The Auditor's name will not appear on the professor's roster. The Auditor's status is that of a nonregistered auditor.

If auditors have further questions, they may reach out to the Senior Citizen Audit Program directly.

" KB0014386 General General - Student Self Reporting Absences "

The Student Self-Reporting Absences (SSRA) Application allows Rutgers University students to report their absences during a semester.

How to Access the SSRA Application

Students can access the SSRA application in two ways:

Direct link: https://sims.rutgers.edu/ssra/
Via myRutgers Portal:
Log into myRutgers.
Navigate to the My Apps tab.
Under the Classes & Degree section, click on Self-Reporting Absence Application.
Reporting an Absence
Students may report up to 7 consecutive days of absence, beginning with the current day.
Students should contact their dean for further guidance if the absence is longer than 7 days.
Students can select a reason for their absence:
Bereavement
Medical
Personal Issue
Other (default)
Notifications and Confirmation
A confirmation email will be sent to the student s Rutgers email address (associated with their NetID). Students can also choose to send the confirmation to an additional email address.
Notifications are automatically sent to all graders of the affected courses.
If no graders are listed or do not have associated email addresses, the student will see a send failure message on the confirmation page.
If no success or failure message appears, the student has no scheduled courses on the selected absence days.
These days are still recorded as absence dates without course conflicts.
Need Help?

For additional details, review the support document: [ SSRA-Support.pdf ]

" KB0015550 General General - Third Party Vendor Risk Assessment Form "

Any department that wants to acquire a product, software, or service offered by a third party that needs to use, process, transmit, store, or reproduce Rutgers University s data must complete the Vendor Risk Assessment Form. If they have any questions or further inquiries after they have submitted the form, the user should be directed to email risk_assurance@oit.rutgers.edu, and the Incident should be Resolved, not reassigned.

" KB0014415 General General - University Software "

If callers have questions about the software provided by the university, several resources are available.

Software Portal:

Users can download both free and commercially available software through this portal (requires NetID login). It can be found at software.rutgers.edu. Users are restricted to seeing only the software available to their roles when logged in. Use the tool below for the full list.
Summer Students, as long as they have a NetID, password, and role in LDAP, should be able to see the same as the Student role.
Guests, Alumni, Emeritus, and Retirees have access to log in to the portal, but can only view the limited software available to them.
Lab Software:

A listing of available software in the virtual computer labs can be found at KB0012455.
For licensing issues or to check on pending software orders, make an Incident Task for ESD - Software Site Licensing.
Tools

To view the full catalog of available software, visit the Software Portal Public Catalog. This allows all consultants and others to view the full list of available software, even if they do not qualify for it. Consultants will be unable to view the product page for software restricted to faculty and staff only, and it will not turn up in a search result on the Portal for them.

" KB0014434 General General - Website Creation/Hosting (Sites@Rutgers) "

What is sites.rutgers.edu?

Sites@Rutgers is the "site-in-a-box" solution that offers hassle-free, no-fuss website creation Rutgers Style. Now, professors, student organizations, and project initiatives can build their own feature-rich Rutgers University website, all in a matter of days.

The Sites@Rutgers page can be found at: https://sites.rutgers.edu/

Who can access this service?

Professors, student organizations, and project initiatives are eligible to use this service. Students and Departments cannot request a website through Sites@Rutgers.

Who provides support?

The Help Desk uses the information found at https://sites.rutgers.edu/frequently-asked-questions/ to provide support to end-users who will be directed to call or email the Help Desk for support. If Help Desk Team Members need to escalate issues to Web Consulting Services (WCS), please email sites-at-rutgers@oit.rutgers.edu with all details regarding the issue. WCS will then evaluate the problem and provide an appropriate response for the Help Desk to relay to the user. The Help Desk will respond to the user and resolve the issue.

Common Questions and Answers
User Management
Adding Users to Sites
User Role Access
Support Agent User Role
Launching Site
Domain Names
Custom Domains
Site Functionality
Issue Escalation Process
User Management

Sites@Rutgers Sites include various user roles, allowing different access levels to a site's pages, blog posts, and more. Refer to the User Roles documentation page for a more detailed breakdown of what each role can see and do.

Adding Users to Sites

Site Owners are the only type of users able to add or edit other users' roles on their site.

I want to add another user to my site as an editor or author, but the dashboard says they must first log into Sites@Rutgers. How can they do that?

New users can log into Sites@Rutgers by visiting sites.rutgers.edu subdirectory /login. After logging in, they can be added to the site and assigned an appropriate user role by the Site Owner.

Check the User Roles documentation page for more information on adding and editing users' roles.

I don't know how to add users. Can you add users to my site?

No, only the Site Owner may add users to a site or modify an existing user's role.

Can I add a non-Rutgers-affiliated user to my site?

Yes. They will first need to submit a request for a NetID with guest access by visiting https://requests.rutgers.edu/guest/guest.htm. Once they have a NetID, you can add them to your site like any other user.

User Role Access

Some users experience confusion about what level of access their role provides them, and expect site privileges they do not have. The Site Owner needs to provide them with access to these features accordingly.

I am an undergraduate working in a professor's lab, and I've been tasked with editing her new lab's Sites@Rutgers website. I can only access the site's blog and events through the dashboard. Why don't I have the option to create or edit pages?

You must have the Editor user role to create or edit site pages. Only the Site Owner themself can provide users with this role.

For more information on permissions for each user role, check the User Roles documentation page.

I need to have more access to this site. Can you upgrade my role?

No, only the Site Owner may add users to a site or modify an existing user's role.

Support Agent User Role

This role provides the user the same access as a Site Owner, except they cannot manage users and their roles.
If a Help Desk team member needs to access a Sites@Rutgers site, the Site Owner may add that team member to their site as a user and assign them the Support Agent role. Once the Help Desk team member is done providing support, they may remove themselves from the site.

Launching Site

When Sites@Rutgers Sites are created, they are set to Maintenance Mode. Maintenance Mode only makes a site visible to logged-in users who have already been added. This allows Site Owners to fully create their site before it has been made publicly accessible. Site Owners can turn Maintenance Mode on and off as they please.

How do I remove Maintenance Mode on my site?

You can remove your site from Maintenance Mode by navigating to the Customizer via the dashboard menu. Under Site Settings, uncheck the box that enables Maintenance Mode.

For more information on toggling Maintenance Mode, check the Site Settings documentation page.

Domain Names

By default, Sites@Rutgers Sites are provided with a subdirectory under sites.rutgers.edu. Based on the information submitted through the Site Request form, such as site name and purpose, WCS provides the site with a relevant subdirectory. For example:

sites.rutgers.edu/person-name
sites.rutgers.edu/organization-name
sites.rutgers.edu/project-name
Custom Domains

A custom domain for a Sites@Rutgers site is defined as a subdomain of rutgers.edu. While other Rutgers web services may provide subdomains at no cost or allow site owners to submit their domain requests directly to Rutgers NOC, this is not available for Sites@Rutgers sites.

Can I get a custom domain name for my Sites@Rutgers site? How much does this cost?

Custom domains on Sites@Rutgers are available at an additional cost and cannot be purchased for a single site. Departments can buy these domains as a bundle of 25 custom domains, each costing $2,500 annually. Departments may purchase additional bundles as needed. Departments approve and request custom domains on the website owner's behalf. These requests should be addressed to the WCS Sites@Rutgers Team via sites-at-rutgers@oit.rutgers.edu. WCS will be responsible for all DNS changes and custom domain setup before site launch.

What constitutes a custom domain name?

A custom domain for a Sites@Rutgers Site is a subdomain of rutgers.edu. Departments approve and request custom domains on the website owner's behalf.

Site Functionality

While the Sites@Rutgers platform is a WordPress Multisite, not all WordPress features are available to our Site Owners. This includes adding custom code, plugins, or styles. On the other hand, some functionalities of Sites@Rutgers are constrained by WordPress' capabilities and cannot be changed.

Is there a way to organize my site's media into subfolders?

No. This folder structure is determined automatically as files are uploaded to the site. This is a WordPress functionality and cannot be manually changed.

Can I add custom CSS to my site?

No. At this time, it is not possible for Site Owners to add custom CSS to their Sites@Rutgers sites.

Can I upload files to my site via SFTP?

No. The Sites@Rutgers platform does not allow SFTP file transfers or uploads to individual sites. All user files must be uploaded via the WordPress media library.

Can I add WordPress plugins to my site?

No. Sites@Rutgers does not support custom plugins beyond what comes packaged with the platform. If you want to add additional WordPress plugins to your site, it must be hosted outside the Sites@Rutgers platform. If you require a more flexible solution with custom features, Rutgers WCS provides consulting services for a fee. For more information, visit the WCS website.

Can I have [additional feature not included with Sites@Rutgers] for my site?

Currently, that particular feature is unavailable on the Sites@Rutgers platform.

Issue Escalation Process

If Help Desk Team Members need to escalate issues to WCS, open a ticket with the EAS - Sites@Rutgers Service group or email sites-at-rutgers@oit.rutgers.edu with all details regarding the issue. WCS will then evaluate the problem and provide an appropriate response for the Help Desk to relay to the user. The Help Desk will respond to the user and resolve the issue.

" KB0017984 Grammarly Grammarly - Grammarly Support "

All eligible faculty, staff, students, emeritus and guests can access a Rutgers Grammarly for Education account.

Review the public knowledge article on Activating your Grammarly for Education Account

Activation

Users must go to the Service Activation page and activate through the Grammarly Box.

After Activation on this page, they should see:







You can confirm they have completed this step by viewing them on CAT. Under User Information > Services, confirm Grammarly is green, and checked:



Additional Information
Getting started with Grammarly for Education
Grammarly's User Guide
Grammarly Apps page to complete downloads
Grammarly Support page

Notes:

Available to faculty, staff, students, emeritus, and guests.
Retirees and Alumni do not have access.

" KB0014201 IDM IDM - Identity Management "

To access most services at the University, people will need an account, which consists of a NetID and a password. NetIDs are automatically generated using letters and a unique number when they are added to OR (Open Registry). Before 2011, users were allowed to create their own NetID. Therefore, not all NetIDs follow this format.

During the NetID activation process, Users will be able to select the services (ScarletMail, Box, Zoom, etc.) that they would like to activate along with their NetID. They can only choose the services for which they are eligible. At that time, they will also be able to set their alias email address and a delivery email address.

Graduate students' admission information is processed from their application to the SRDB (Student Records Database). When a student responds to the admission letter, the admit role is generated from the SRDB and sent to the PDB (People Database), which then generates a NetID. This process takes overnight to process. The next day, the student can activate their NetID. This process generally takes 1 to 2 business days.

" KB0014988 IDM IDM - Chosen Name Initiative "

Please note: it is critical to always respect a user by calling them by their indicated name and pronouns. If a user tells you their name or pronouns, use them when addressing the user and updating the incident.

To assist users with setting their chosen name, the following resources are available:

For students, directions are available at https://scarlethub.rutgers.edu/registrar/personal-information-updates/name-change/
For faculty and staff, directions are available at https://uhr.rutgers.edu/worklife-balance/submitting-chosen-name

If a user is a student worker and has updated their name through the student name change process, they will still need to complete the steps above for faculty and staff to see their chosen name reflected in relevant systems.

It is important to note that a chosen name will replace a legal name in multiple administrative systems. However, not all systems utilize the same information source for a user's name, and subsequently, will not update automatically once a chosen name has been set. The following systems will be updated within 24-48 hours:

Rutgers Search Directory
myRutgers Portal
Class Rosters
Canvas
REGIS

We can also provide directions to assist a user with setting a chosen name in the following platforms:

Email (How to set a personalized email alias)

ScarletMail/Google Apps (edit your profile)
Zoom (How to edit your Zoom display profile name)
WebEx (How to edit your WebEx profile name display)
ID Cards (update your RU ID through Identity and Access Management)

The following needs a manual intervention to get the chosen name updated:

Adobe Creative Cloud requires cutting a Task for ESD - Software Site Licensing to have an Adobe System Admin manually update the chosen/legal name change.

If a user calls or emails regarding setting a chosen name, you can direct them to the above resources and assist them with completing the steps outlined above.

After they have set a chosen name using the above steps, they should wait 48 hours before it is reflected in Rutgers systems.

If a user has waited that amount of time and still does not see their chosen name in certain systems, please note in the incident which systems they do not see the correct name and escalate to FT staff, who will reach out to the service owner for the service to be corrected.

" KB0014121 IDM IDM - CommunityID "

CommunityID is intended for a broader, extended community of users at Rutgers University (e.g. applicants, prospective students, parents and authorized users). With a CommunityID account, users can register/manage their account that is based on personal email address (e.g. xyz@gmail.com that is used for login) in order to access specific extended community services, that are distinct from regular services available with a NetID account.

CommunityID Password Reset Issues

If a user forgets their password to this site they can go to rcm.rutgers.edu/forgotPassword to reset their password. They will need to enter in the information below in the exact format as when the account was created, otherwise, they will not receive the activation key.

Email*: Email used to login to this application
First Name*: First name used for creating this account
Last Name*: Last name used for creating this account
Date Of Birth: if entered while creating this account (Format: mm/dd/yyyy)

If the information is being entered correctly and the user still isn't seeing the email with the activation key, please have them check their junk and spam folders.

If further escalation is needed, please speak to a supervisor.

For more details, please go to:
rcm.rutgers.edu/help

End users can be directed to the following:
Questions about Online Term Bill (OTB) can go to Student Accounting Office (848) 932-2254
Questions related to authentication via CommunityID can go to CommunityID_help@email.rutgers.edu

Support Information

This page includes contact information for support with CommunityID for both end users and internal users. Please do not give out information marked as Internal Use Only to users.

Service Name, Description, and URL	Service Provider Contact Information (End Users)	Service Provider Contact Information (Internal Use Only)


Register to create and manage CommunityID accounts.

Users navigate to https://rcm.rutgers.edu/ which is CommunityID's Registration and Credential Management (RCM) application.

	For general help questions (e.g. how do I change my email/password?) users can contact communityID_help@email.rutgers.edu.	

Support Staff can contact IdM via email at idm_support@email.rutgers.edu

(Internal Use Only)




Online Term Bill (OTB)

Users navigate to https://finservices.rutgers.edu/otb where authorized users can view/pay term bills, as authorized by students. This service is also known as the 'Student Account System'.

	

For questions about OTB (e.g. what payment options are available? can I get a breakdown of the charges?), please contact OneStop on the appropriate campus:

https://scarlethub.rutgers.edu/contacts/

	

Support Staff can contact One Stop supervisors (all campuses): senior-staff@onestop.rutgers.edu

OTB/OL Community ID Support: otb_ol_support@oit.rutgers.edu

(Internal Use Only)




myGuest Dashboard

A portal service for parents, guardians and authorized users who are invited by students to access their student information.

https://my.rutgers.edu

	

For questions about the myGuest Dashboard, please contact: myguest@rutgers.edu

or your campus One Stop: https://scarlethub.rutgers.edu/contacts/

	

Support Staff can contact One Stop supervisors (all campuses): senior-staff@onestop.rutgers.edu

myRutgers portal:
ess-myrutgers@oit.rutgers.edu

(Internal Use Only)




Financial Aid Offer Letter (OL)

A portal service which displays a financial aid offer letter which includes the cost of attendance and financial aid offered. This letter is viewable to authorized users, if granted by the student.

https://finservices.rutgers.edu/faaward/
letter/awardLogin.htm

	

For questions about the financial aid offer letter or specific financial aid question, please contact:

Financial Aid Office https://scarlethub.rutgers.edu/contacts/

RBHS: rbhs_pisc@ofa.rutgers.edu

	

Support Staff can contact One Stop supervisors (all campuses): senior-staff@onestop.rutgers.edu

OTB/OL Community ID Support: otb_ol_support@oit.rutgers.edu

(Internal Use Only)




Registration

For services related to course registration or obtaining student academic records, authorized users, if granted access can access registration information in the myGuest Dashboard.

https://registrar.rutgers.edu/

	

For questions about courses, registration, diploma, transcripts, etc., please contact One Stop on the appropriate campus:

https://scarlethub.rutgers.edu/contacts/

RBHS: rbhsregistrar@rbhs.rutgers.edu

	

Support Staff can contact One Stop supervisors (all campuses): senior-staff@onestop.rutgers.edu

(Internal Use Only)




Application for Admissions

Service where perspective and current students can apply for admissions into undergraduate and/or graduate programs.

https://rutgers.force.com/ApplicantPortal/AppPortalCustom

	

For questions about application for admissions, place contact the Admissions Office on the appropriate campus:

https://admissions.rutgers.edu/ask-a-question

	

Salesforce/Enterprise CRM Support: crm_support@oit.rutgers.edu

(Internal Use Only)

KBB0010147IDM - CommunityID

Related HDIs:

myRutgers - myGuestDashboard

" KB0011212 IDM IDM - Deprovisioning "

When a Rutgers affiliate no longer has an active role at the university, their NetID is set to an inactive state. This will immediately revoke access to any and all services that use their NetID to log in, including Rutgers Connect and ScarletMail.

For faculty and staff, this process is immediate upon losing all active roles.
For legacy (non-RBHS) Rutgers students, they will have a one semester grace period before they are deprovisioned.
RBHS Rutgers students will have four months before they are deprovisioned.
The Student Worker role does not qualify as an active role if it is the only active role the user has.
Users who graduate or retire should have active roles (retiree and alumni) which allow them to remain active and will not be deprovisioned. Faculty, staff and RBHS students using Rutgers Connect will only have access to ScarletMail with these active statuses.

If a user is deprovisioned because they do not have an active role, their status in the NetID admin tool will show User record is not in LDAP.

If a person with a deprovisioned account gets an active role again, their account will be added to LDAP but inactive until the user activates it again. You can assist these users by directing them to activate their NetID through the standard NetID activation flow. The account will be unlocked (only when the reason code is Deprovisioned ), and NetID will be activated. The user will also be able to reset their password during the activation flow.

" KB0012275 IDM IDM - DUO Hardware Token pickup process "

The user places an order for a token (or token replacement) from software.rutgers.edu according to their current role:

Faculty/Staff
Students
Replacements

Depending on their role, users will be presented with "Delivery Method" options to receive their token (delivery or pickup).

Pickup at the local Help Desk or mail to the home.
Delivery may incur a charge of up to $7.95 for mailed delivery to the user's home.
'Help Desk' option will require the user to come in for token pickup at their specified location and is free of charge.

Help Desk options are New Brunswick, Newark, and Camden.
If a user contacts the Help Desk and states they cannot come on to campus for token pickup:

If the user has already purchased a token from the software portal, the Help Desk will leave a comment in the auto-generated incident created by the software portal (Software Portal Request #, Security Hardware Token) stating that the user is requesting token shipment. Help Desk will collect the requested shipping address from the user.
Help Desk will create an incident task and assign it to ESD - Software Site Licensing
The token will then be shipped to the address by the Software team. The user will not incur any shipping costs.
If the user has not yet purchased a token, the Help Desk will guide them to the software portal to purchase the token and then follow the steps above.

Once an order is entered and submitted by the user, the processing of the order will follow the workflow, dependent on the delivery method chosen:

The delivery option will be processed by the Software team staff and processed/mailed to the user within 1 business day.
Help Desk pickup will be processed by Help Desk FT staff using the instructions below.
Help Desk location pickup - Processing orders:
Software.rutgers.edu will send the DUO Token pickup order to ServiceNow for processing.

The order will generate an incident in ServiceNow
The inbound address is set as "tokenpickup_sn@oit.rutgers.edu"
Service Offering set as "Software Portal"
The assignment group is set as "ESD - Software Portal Fulfillment" (accessible to HD FT staff)
The description will contain full-order info from software.rutgers.edu
User will receive an email notification with the subject "Rutgers University Software Portal - Order xxxxxx Updated" with a link to Help Desk hours and location
The Help Desk FT will provide them with a token, accompanied by an instructions sheet, to activate, add the serial number to the incident, and resolve it in ServiceNow.

" KB0011230 IDM IDM - DUO Opt-Out Rules for Roles "

The opt-out rules for DUO depend on the roles the user has.

Roles that prevent a person from opt-out by default are:

Admit
Admit Coming
Student
Staff
Faculty
Guest
Student Worker
Emeritus
Retiree

Roles that can opt-out unless they have additional Staff, Faculty or Guest roles:

Alumni

Users who are restricted from opting out by default are required to call the Help Desk. There may be business/technical reasons that require a user to opt-out. If a user calls in, a full-time staff member can grant the user back the ability to opt out of two-step authentication. If a user is requesting the ability to opt-out of DUO, please contact a full-time staff member or a member of the Faculty/Staff Help Desk.

" KB0014158 IDM IDM - Early Employee and Guest NetIDs Requests Status "

Occasionally users and or sponsors will call in asking for an update on their Early Employee NetID or Guest Account requests. To look up the status of one of these requests do the following

Go to http://registry.rutgers.edu and log in
Click on View Status/Reporting under the type of account you are looking for the status of.
Requests can be searched by

Request ID (Which should have been provided to the sponsor)
Sponsors NetID (Guest Requests only)
Organizational Unit (Guest Requests only)
For Sponsor NetID and Organizational Unit selection, a date range will also be required before you can search
A request has two types of status

Approval Status - This is the status of the sponsor's approval
Process Status - This is the status of the processing of the request
Each of the statuses can be:

Finished

If Approval Status is listed as Finished that means that the sponsor has approved it.
If Process Status is listed as Finished that means that the request was processed.
Pending

If Approval Status is listed as Pending that means the Sponsor has not approved it.
If Process Status is listed as Pending that means that the request is waiting to be processed.
Escalated

If Approval Status is listed as Escalated that means that the request has been waiting for a few days without any action from the sponsor.
If Process Status is listed as Escalated that means that the request has been waiting for a few days without any action from the person processing the account.
Clicking on the request ID number gives more information about the request. This could include any notes as to why a request was denied or any special handling instructions for that request.

" KB0014867 IDM IDM - Early Employee NetID Request "

OIT will provide Early Employee NetIDs to Rutgers employees (including RBHS) with Social Security Numbers who need access to electronic services to perform their assigned duties and whose on-boarding process has been delayed. In practice, a department can use Early Employee NetID process for anyone that is a future F/S member but needs access ASAP. Early Employee NetID does NOT give full access and it does not replace the need to complete on-boarding via the Rutgers Integrated Administrative System (RIAS). As such, it is expected that the employee and their department will work with HR to ensure the on-boarding issues are resolved within 30 days.

If a person calls regarding obtaining a NetID and they are a future faculty or staff member, we should first investigate why they have not yet received roles. If the (pending) employee is confident that their department has started the on-boarding process, then the Help Desk should first check the HR Data Error Logs see if the problem lies with conflicting database information. IDCheck can be checked for roles when RBHS may be involved.

While any person with an active faculty or staff role can submit a request for an Early Employee NetID for another, the (pending) employee should speak to their departmental Human Resources representative or a hiring authority about using the following link to request an Early Employee NetID.

Requirements

To obtain an Early Employee NetID, a person must be a future Faculty/Staff member and MUST have a Social Security Number. This criteria is put in place to avoid issues that may arise when the user is properly on-boarded via RIAS. When being paid by the University, you must have a valid Social Security Number, so having a database entry without an SSN may lead to problems in the future.

Turnaround

The Help Desk provides their best effort to complete Early Employee NetID requests in one business day. A full time staff member is assigned to process Early Employee NetID requests each weekday.

Giving out NetID policies

NetIDs are not to be provided to anyone. The user should look up their own NetID using the NetID Lookup tool. If requested, please direct the user to the How do I find my NetID? public knowledge article.

" KB0014198 IDM IDM - Faculty Staff Onboarding Issues "

In order for a new faculty or staff member to activate a NetID (or for student employees to have access to Employee Self Service) they must be added to payroll by their department. This information is then pushed to OR (Open Registry), which allows the user to activate their NetID or access role-based services. Depending on what type of employee they are hired as, this process can take anywhere from 1-3 days.

If the employee has an existing entry in OR and the information entered into payroll conflicts with this entry, one of two things may happen:

OR catches the conflict and generates a report about the issue (this is added to a logfile accessible to CSq and FT staff only). The user's payroll entry is held until the conflict can be resolved. Once we have confirmed with the user what information is correct, FT staff can contact IDM support to have them merge the two entries.
OR does not catch the conflict and creates a second OR record for the user, complete with a second NetID. The user may also be informed by email that they can activate a second NetID. If this occurs, we will need to confirm what information is correct AND what NetID the user wishes to keep. After FT contacts IDM support and the records are merged, the extraneous NetID will be deleted and accounts associated with that NetID will be merged to the user's accounts for the current NetID.

If a user is calling who you believe has already been entered into payroll, (i.e., 5-7 business days after the payroll information has been submitted), but can't activate their NetID or log into services, please consult with FT for additional guidance. We may have them reach out to their department's HR team for further assistance on delay in processing the NetID. They can also reach out to Rutgers One Source for more information on their NetID as well, but should only do so after the incident has been reviewed by FT.

" KB0014169 IDM IDM - Guest Access "

The guest process is relatively complex. Before taking any action in regards to providing answers about guests please consult a Supervisor first. The following information will provide a base understanding of the guest process. However there are exceptions to all occasions. Any unanswerable questions should be directed to FT.

What is a guest?
What access does a guest get?
What is the difference between a Guest NetID, Guest Account, and a Guest Role?
What is a Herd?
How Are Guest Requests Submitted?
Updating Guest Information
Services:
ID Cards
ScarletMail
RU Wireless
VPN
Canvas
Connect
Libraries
Special Cases
Senior Citizen Auditing Program
Retirees
Housing Residents
RBHS Guests
Audits
Auditing the Guest Role
What is a guest?
Typically a guest is anyone who is affiliated with the University but is either not being paid by the University or officially enrolled as a student.
A guest must be sponsored by an active faculty/staff member.

This means a guest cannot sponsor another guest nor can a guest sponsor themselves. A student worker also cannot sponsor a guest.
Note that other campuses also process guests (i.e. Newark, Camden, and RBHS) for which the guest processing is slightly different. It is important to identify which campus the guest is affiliated with.
Many guests are affiliated with certain programs such as Senior Citizen Auditing, or may be Retirees.

It is important to ascertain as much detail as you can as to what a guest needs and from where are they coming from because each has a slightly different process.
What access does a guest get?
The level of access a guest obtains is unique to each and every guest.

Examples of access include but are not limited to RU Wireless, Rutgers Email account, and ID cards.
Guests will have a sponsor that is responsible for maintaining the account and providing access.
Guests have the option to provide their Social security Number (SSN) when submitting a guest request.
If they provide their SSN, it will be on their record in OR and should be used to activate their NetID.
If they do not provide their SSN, a Pseudo one is created for them in OR. The sponsor provides their guest with their own pseudo-SSN that is meant to be used in place of an actual SSN during NetID activation and password reset procedures.

The sponsor has access to this pseudo-SSN and is able to provide it to the respective guest whenever necessary.
The pseudo-SSN should be located in a prior email sent to one of the guest's personal email addresses.
You should ask what services the guest needs access to.
Many guests will only require a minimal subset of the services possible.
Certain services will require additional steps to obtain. Some of these services will be outlined below.
What is the difference between a Guest NetID, Guest Account, and a Guest Role?
All of the above are individual items but tie in to each other.
Guest Role - A role is an individual's affiliation with the University. An individual can have multiple concurrent roles. Examples of such roles are faculty, staff, student, admit coming, student worker, alumni, and guest.

In most cases a guest role will not be assigned to anyone with an active faculty/staff role.
By having an active guest role in Open Registry, a guest is able to activate their NetID and obtain access to certain services.
Guest NetID - A guest NetID is the same as any other NetID in that it is the unique identifier assigned an individual when they are entered into Open Registry.

If a guest is brand new to the University they will be assigned a NetID.
If a guest had a prior affiliation, they will assume their old NetID, but they will now have an updated role to go with the NetID
Guest Account - An account is an entry for a particular service.

An example of this is a Connect account. A guest can request additional access to a service like Connect which would give them an account on the email system.
Accounts can run independent of roles. In fact it is quite possible to have an active account without having an active role.
Some accounts are dictated by Herds.
What is a Herd?
A herd is a specific grouping used to manage service access.
You can view what herds an individual is in through Open Registry.

To do this look up a user and then select on of their roles.
On the next page find where it says Network Herds. Under this section will be all the herds the user has had.
Looking at the dates will let you know how long that herd is active for.
The standard herd that a new guest will be put in is ASC_MISC.
How Are Guest Requests Submitted?

Active faculty/staff members can submit guest requests electrically by using the form found at requests.rutgers.edu

Short-term Guests (those equal to, or less than 14 days), like those created for RCPID Requests, can not have their Guest NetID renewed.

Updating Guest Information

Rutgers guests can contact the Help Desk to notify us of desired changes. FT staff can update Guest info.

Services
ID Cards
In order to apply for an ID card a guest must first have an active role in Open Registry
For this reason a guest NetID request will need to be submitted
Note:
A guest is not required to activate their NetID in order to obtain an ID card
Once the guest has been entered into the registry they must still take additional steps.
An ID card can still work even if a role is inactive so long as whatever building or service the ID card is being used for does not check for active roles.
Admit Coming users can only obtain ID cards after a certain date. If a sponsor wants to create a guest NetID to get an ID card early, this is the wrong course of action to take. Ask the sponsor for what reason they need an ID card early. If the guest is going to be employed then the sponsor should have that person on-boarded instead.
ScarletMail
By default a guest can create a ScarletMail account during NetID activation or afterwards by going through Service Activation
RU Wireless
Once a guest has been entered into Open Registry and they have activated their NetID they will be able to log on to RU Wireless Secure
VPN
Once a guest has been entered into Open Registry, they will need to activate their NetID and also setup Duo two-factor authentication before they will be able to utilize Rutgers VPN.
Once they have Duo setup, they can go to the Service Activation page to enable VPN.
Guests are NOT authorized to use the VPN to access services they are not entitled to (such as libraries resources)
Canvas
Once a guest has been entered into Open Registry and they have activated their NetID they will be able to log in to Canvas.
However unless they have been added to a course by their NetID they will not see any courses listed.
Connect
To gain access, their sponsor should reach out to their local Delegated Administrators to provision an account for the Guest and to have their UPN changed to the correct Domain.
Libraries
By default, guests are restricted from off-campus access to University library resources (borrowing books or accessing articles/journals online). They may use the libraries in-person, and can check out up to 25 books for up to 6 weeks.
Guests who require access to Library resources will need to contact the libraries directly; see https://www.libraries.rutgers.edu/public_service_policies/guest_borrowe for details.
Guests are NOT authorized to use the VPN to access services they are not entitled to (such as libraries resources)
Virtual Labs
Virtual labs requires a Rutgers connect license, either student or fac/staff. Guest will need their sponsor to reach out to their Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrators to request a Rutgers Connect be provisioned for the Guest, as this is not done automatically.
With the exception of Community Affairs Guests, as outlined below, who get a student Connect license automatically.
Special Cases

The following are a few exceptions to the standard guest process. You should refer to FT if any questions arise in taking calls of this nature.

Senior Citizen Auditing Program
Rutgers Community Affairs runs this program in which senior citizens can sit in on Rutgers classes. These guests are only allotted access for one semester.
For more information look here: https://community.rutgers.edu/programs-services/program-directory/senior-citizen-audit-program
Effective 6/11/24 MaCS has evaluated the Senior Citizen Audit Program (https://community.rutgers.edu/programs-services/program-directory/senior-citizen-audit-program) and believes this population is eligible for Microsoft Student licenses. Therefore, we have updated Service Activation to provide GUESTs of "COMMUNITY AFFAIRS" a Rutgers Connect LIMITED license (OneDrive/Office/Virtual Computer Labs/etc.; no mailbox). Senior Citizen Audit participants are PHI=N, so those requiring Rutgers email should still be directed to ScarletMail. (This remains unchanged.)
Retirees
Some guests of the University are actually retirees.
Historically faculty or staff members who have been with the University for over 10 years are eligible for a Retiree Guest Account.
However this is not an automatic process. To obtain an retiree account the retiree should contact the Benefits Department, University Human Resources ASBII, 57 US Highway 1, New Brunswick, NJ 08901-8554 (848 -932-3990) who will verify the person's retirement status.
If someone asks about converting their account to guest/retiree status before they have actually retired, have them contact OneSource.
Retiree Guest accounts must be renewed yearly in September. There is no way to renew the account for longer periods of time or at any other part of the year. Retirees, like other Guests, may not have access to some University services (e.g., online library services or software.rutgers.edu), depending on the criteria each service checks for.
Housing Residents
Rutgers offers family living solutions on-campus in various residence halls. These residences mostly reside on Busch campus. If the spouse of a Rutgers affiliate is residing on campus with the user and requests a guest NetID in order to have swipe access to the building as well as access to RU Wireless networks, the spouse and Rutgers affiliate must go to the Assignments Office, located in the Davidson Hall on Busch Campus.
More information regarding this office, such as location and hours, can be found below:

https://ruoncampus.rutgers.edu/about/contact-us
RBHS Guests
Guest requests can be submitted through the standard requests.rutgers.edu process. They get approved by specific RBHS staff after being submitted.
If a caller from another RBHS school/unit needs a guest account they should be directed to their local IT. For RBHS units that do not have a school designation or the RBHS local IT support is asking for assistance, then ask the Fac/Staff HD managers as they may process those.
Audits
In order to maintain accurate records and to preserve system security audits are conducted on both Guest Roles and certain accounts
Auditing the Guest Role
Anyone with an active guest role in Open Registry will receive 2 automated emails (one at 30 days out and one at 15 days out) when their role is near expiration. This applies only to the guest role. You may receive calls from users stating they have already taken action in one aspect or another. As a supervisor you should:
Verify the actual message by having the caller forward it.
Look up the caller and see what their role says and what herds they are a part of.
Depending on what you see you may take different action.
If they only have an acs_misc herd they need to have their sponsor reply to the automated audit email
If you are ever unsure please speak with FT.

Here is an example of what the automated email looks like for the guest:

Dear Jayesh Ratnam,

Your Rutgers Guest role will expire in 30 days. If you continue to need access to Rutgers resources, please notify sponsor John Brennan. Your sponsor will receive a similar email to remind them to provide approval to renew the Guest role if the Guest role is still needed. If you wish to submit a new Guest request with a new sponsor, you may do so by following the main guest request link https://requests.rutgers.edu/app/ui/#guestrequest. Otherwise no action is required.

Please contact the Office of Information Technology Help Desk if you have questions:

Office of Information Technology (OIT) Help Desk

https://it.rutgers.edu/help-support

833-OIT-HELP

" KB0015602 IDM IDM - Identity Theft "

A user may have their account flagged for identity theft by the Information Security Office. The ISO is the one to determine if this should be added to their account and are the only ones that can add/remove this flag to a user's account. The user will have the identity theft flag on their account for 3 years. During this time they have the following restrictions:

Unable to use the forgot password feature via two factor authentication
Unable to use the forgot password feature via security questions
Their NetID will not show up when searched on the NetID Lookup Tool.
Flags you will see regarding identity theft

Auditing a person in NetID Admin will show Added Identity Theft status in the logs.

Searching a NetID in NetID Admin will show WARNING: User with Identity Theft Status.

Searching a user in Open Registry (OR) will show **WARNING: User with Identity Theft Status** under Generate New Activation Key.

Communication with User

Users with the identity theft flag will receive the following communication when it is added to their account:

Subject: Rutgers Added Identity Theft Status

Dear Student,

Identity Theft Status has been added to your account.
This means you cannot reset your password using Forgotten Password method with Two factor Authentication method. Also, NetID lookup will not show your NetID.
This change will be in effect for the next 3 years.

If you have any questions, please contact OIT Help Desk by phone at 833-OIT-HELP (833-648-4357)

This is an automated message. Please do not reply.

They will receive this communication when it is removed:

Subject: Rutgers Removed Identity Theft Status

Dear Student,

Identity Theft Status has been removed from your account.
This means you can reset your password using Forgotten Password method with all available methods. Also, NetID lookup will show your NetID.

If you have any questions, please contact OIT Help Desk by phone at 833-OIT-HELP (833-648-4357)

This is an automated message. Please do not reply.

Resetting Password

User will not be able to use the forgot password feature via two factor authentication or security questions, and will be unable to find their NetID on the NetID Lookup Tool. This message will be shown:

Information not found. Please contact Help Desk if you believe the information entered is correct.

They will need to contact the Help Desk for assistance with resetting their password.

Help Desk should use extreme caution when assisting users with resetting their password. When in doubt, the user must come in to the Help Desk with valid government ID for us to be able to provide them an Activation Key.

When assisting a user with this issue, we do not inform them of this flag on their account. You may use the following message if the user needs assistance resetting their password:

"Due to additional security requirements to ensure the integrity of your account, it's required that you contact the Help Desk to reset your password. You may come into the Help Desk with Valid government ID and we can assist you in person."



" KB0015279 IDM IDM - Identity/Data mismatch issues "

If a user is trying to activate their NetID or having other issues related to a data error (ex: wrong DOB) you should reach out to FT to investigate and verify the issue. Only once approved by FT can they be directed back to where the data was entered to have it corrected.

Students: OneStop
Faculty/Staff: Departmental or University HR
Alumni: OneStop
Guests: Help Desk FT

For other specific cases on where to redirect patrons to please view the ID Number Information Guide.

If a user has multiple roles and the data between them do not match up, FT should check the data error logs:

Navigate to the error logs
Select the appropriate Error Log to view based on the role having the data mismatch.
Confirm user shows up in the log.
Verify ID.
Confirm correct record and data.
Open a Task for EAS - Identity and Access Management.
Include which record and data is correct.
Never include sensitive information in the Task (ex: SSN).
If necessary, you may indicate sensitive number changes while not providing the full number and being as specific as possible (ex: "change last digit of SSN from 1 to 2").

" KB0014045 IDM IDM - NetID - Password reset process "

Before proceeding with a password reset, please have the user try the self-service options first.

This now includes using two-factor authentication with Duo, which most users will be required to have set up on their accounts. To reset a password with Duo, the user should select the Two Factor Authentication box on the Forgotten Password page.

First Half
Create the Incident
When creating the incident, fill out the following fields:

Caller: User's NetID
Subject Person: User s NetID if different from the Caller
Callback phone number: Number you verified they can be reached at
Service offering: NetID
Channel: Phone
Assignment group: NB-HD
Assigned to: Your NetID
Short Description: NetID Password Reset
Description: A brief explanation of the issue they are experiencing
Click Save in the top right.
IMPORTANT: Remember to post the OpenRegistry (only the PHI flag and Roles) and NetID Admin information as a Work Note before the password reset!
Check for the following
Do they have an active role listed in OR?
Only users with at least one active role in OpenRegistry can reset their password.
Check that one of the Roles listed in OR says it is Active.
If their role should be active but is currently inactive:

Students should contact the Registrar/OneStop.
Faculty/Staff should contact their IT department.
Guests should contact their sponsor.
Do they have an active NetID?
Only users with an active NetID can reset their password.

In the NetID Admin Management Tool, verify the "NetID LDAP Status:" field shows as active.
If a "NetID LDAP Status" is inactive, or "Is NetID locked in Kerberos?:" is Y and shows locked due to deprovisioning"; AND the user has an active role, the user should be able to reactivate their NetID by going to https://netid.rutgers.edu/ > NetID Activation.
If "Is NetID locked in Kerberos?:" is Y and it is locked due to any other reason, such as "phishing", please notify a Supervisor or FT.
What service are they trying to access?

Make sure the user has the appropriate role for the service they are attempting to log in to. Alumni, for example, will not be able to access their unofficial transcript.
Has the user attempted to reset their password on their own?

If not, direct the user to https://netid.rutgers.edu/ > Manage NetID Password > Forgotten Password. If the user can reset their password themselves via this form, make sure they can now log in with their new password.
Is the user probshelled?

Check a user's role using the NetID Admin Management Tool and look under "LDAP Campus Services". If the user has student:nb:probshell, the user is probshelled. Please notify a Supervisor/FT if this is the case.
Is Kerberos under maintenance?

This is not common and is typically announced.
During the scheduled Kerberos maintenance, all Rutgers and RBHS users will be unable to set or reset their Rutgers NetID password. They will see the following message displayed on the password page at this time:
"Your Rutgers NetID password cannot be changed at this time, due to scheduled system maintenance. Please try again later today after <specify time> EST."
Verify Identity

If none of the above apply, ensure the user has attempted to reset their password by visiting https://netid.rutgers.edu/ > Manage NetID Password > Forgotten Password.

If they are unable to reset their password using Duo and do not remember their security questions, put this in the Incident as a Work Note and proceed with verifying identity.

Follow the procedures on Verifying Identity.

Do NOT share the information you see in OR with the user. The user should be providing you with the information, and then you verify that it matches one of the methods listed below.

If there are any concerns regarding the identity verification, supervisors also have access to a photo of the user in OR, which could be used as an additional layer of security to verify a match with the user's in-person appearance. Matching the photo in OR should never be the primary way of verification.

IMPORTANT: Always post how you verified the user's identity. If identity has been verified via an alternate phone number or email in OR, post the following in the work notes:

"Verified email/phone: <Enter email/phone here> from role: <Enter role here>"

Second Half
Please ensure the following fields are filled out correctly:

Caller: User's NetID
Subject Person: User s NetID if different from the Caller
Callback phone number: Number you verified they can be reached at
Service offering: NetID
Channel: Phone
Assignment group: NB-HD
Assigned to: Update to your NetID
Short Description: NetID Password Reset
Work Notes: List how identity was verified
If identity is verified via phone number or an alternate non-Rutgers email, follow the Part 2 section in the Verifying Identity KA.
KBB0010156NetID - Password reset process (NB - Response Template for Activation Key)
Direct the user to https://netid.rutgers.edu/ > Manage NetID Password > Forgotten Password and have them complete the form using the Activation Key you provided.
Once the user is able to access their security questions, suggest that the user can write down or take a screenshot of the questions and answers for the next time they need to reset their password
After security questions and password are reset, confirm in NetID Admin that the reset was processed, then have the user log in to a Rutgers service to verify they can now log in with their new password.

Please remember to give a few minutes for the password reset to take effect, as it may not work right away
IMPORTANT: Remember to post the updated NetID Admin information in the incident after the password reset!
Resolve the Incident.

" KB0011129 IDM IDM - NetID - Security Questions and Answers "

The Security Questions and Answers allows students, student workers, faculty, staff, alumni and guest to reset their password without the need to come to a NBCS Computer Lab or the Help Desk. All Rutgers affiliates are now enrolled into the program when they first activate their NetID. At that time, they must define answers to three of the many questions predefined by the University that they can choose from. The answer entered in for each of the three questions selected must contain a minimum of three characters each to be accepted. If there are less than three characters then the following error message will be displayed:

"Please enter at least 3 characters long answer to question <1>"

If at a later date the student cannot remember their password, they can use this tool to answer the security questions they setup and reset their password online.

On the Security Questions and Answers page users will need to provide their NetID, First and Last Name, DoB, and SSN/RUID/A-Number in the format requirements displayed on the page. The Activation Key field can be left blank. After the user has reset their password by answering their three Security Questions then have them login to their webmail or cas.rutgers.edu to verify that it was successful. Also check the Netid Admin Management Tool for the last password change date, which should reflect that date if the password reset was successful and then copy & paste that whole section into the ticket to resolve the ticket.

If a user answers a question incorrectly several times while attempting to use this tool, it will become locked for 24 hours. After 24 hours from the time of the lockout, the Security Questions and Answers feature will automatically unlock and can be attempted again.

See the Password Resets section for additional ways to reset passwords.

If a user has used an Activation Key to support a Password Reset, they will be prompted and required to reconfigure their Security Questions and Answers before moving on to reset their Password.



" KB0011130 IDM IDM - NetID Activation "

To begin the activation process, users should go to http://netid.rutgers.edu. This page gives users a brief overview of the NetID & services offered. Users should follow the below steps:

Click on Activate NetID on the left-hand side of the page.
The next page will ask the user for the following information: first and last name, Identifier (SSN, RUID, or A-Number), and DoB.
Remember to inform the user of the format requirements for each field - first letter of first and last name must be capitalized, DoB must be entered in the format listed below the field (mm/dd/yyyy).
Note that the first and last name must be entered the same way that it appears in Open Registry (RUST can also be checked and is useful for special cases as it gives the exact number of characters in the user's first and last names).
Once all fields have been filled, complete the captcha and click Continue .
The Captcha is used to prevent automated activation attempts and is hosted by Google. If the user is on a network that is actively blocking Google services, they will not be able to proceed with activation until they are using a network that allows Google services.
If there were no errors in the provided information and this is the first time that the user is activating a NetID, the next page should ask them to create a password. Users who have previously had an active NetID will keep the same password associated with their account the last time it was active. The password must be 10-63 characters long and contain 3 different character classes, and must also be substantially different from their past 5 passwords. These requirements are also listed on the page for the user to view.
Once the password is set the next page will allow the user to select and provide answers for three security questions which may be used to reset their password remotely should they ever forget it. The answers are case sensitive. Users can also manage their security questions at any time by going to netid.rutgers.edu > Manage Security Questions and logging in.
Once the questions are set, the user will be able to activate whichever services they are eligible for, as determined by their role at the University. These include services like Rutgers Connect and ScarletApps. Once the user has selected the appropriate check-boxes for the services they want, they should click Activate Services . If the user does not want to activate any services at the time, they may click "Skip Services Activation" instead. The user may manage service activation at any time by going to netid.rutgers.edu > Service Activation.
After selecting services to activate, the User must select a Rutgers Email Address also known as an Alias . The default alias is netid@rutgers.edu. Users may also set personal aliases which may also include their middle initial or suffix. For example, john.doe@rutgers.edu, john.j.doe@rutgers.edu, or john.doe.md@rutgers.edu. This information is listed above the alias tool.
The process will also ask the user to set a Delivery Address . This could be an address they have at the University (Rutgers Connect, ScarletMail, etc.) or a personal address of their choosing. All emails sent to the Alias address will be forwarded to the Delivery address selected by the user.
Account and Services activation is complete at this point. Note that some services can take up to 24 hours to activate completely.

" KB0014192 IDM IDM - NetID Activation (Summer and Winter Session) "

To take summer/winter courses, prospective students must register first. Session registration information can be found on the Summer Session Registration Page or the Winter Session Registration page.

Non-matriculated students who have been accepted for the Summer or Winter sessions must first register for classes using their RUID and PAC and pay their term bill before they are listed as a student in OR. Once listed as a Summer/Winter student, they can activate their NetID within 24 hours.

Students should receive an email like the one listed below upon being accepted for the Summer/Winter term.

Dear [STUDENT NAME]:
Congratulations! Your Registration Request Form has been received and your information has been added to our student database.
You have been assigned the Rutgers University Identification (RUID) number [RUID].
You may register online at http://webreg.rutgers.edu, using your RUID and Personal Access Code (PAC). Your PAC Number is a four digit code representative of your date of birth. The first two digits represent the month and the second two digits represent the day. For example, if you were born on Oct.22nd, your PAC would be 1022.
To pay your term bill online, please visit http://studentabc.rutgers.edu and click on pay your bill online.
Once you have paid your bill, please wait 24 hours, then visit http://netid.rutgers.edu to create your Rutgers NetID. This will enable you to open email and computer accounts, view course materials and your grades online, and access other services. We encourage you to create a NetID and Rutgers email address so your email address appears on an enrollment roster or in the online directory.
To locate a building on the New Brunswick campus please visit http://maps.rutgers.edu.
For information about parking, transportation, university services and facilities, and more, please visit summerwinter.rutgers.edu or contact the New Brunswick Office of Summer and Winter Sessions at wsru@docs.rutgers.edu or 848/932-7565.
Please note: If you are a matriculated student at another college or university, we recommend that you confirm course transferability with your home institution before the first class meeting. Brief course descriptions are available at http://sis.rutgers.edu/soc. If more detailed course information is required by your home institution, please contact the appropriate Rutgers academic department. You can find department contact information at http://search.rutgers.edu.
Welcome to Rutgers! We wish you a successful Summer or Winter Session.
Sincerely,
Rutgers University Summer and Winter Sessions - New Brunswick
55 Commercial Avenue
New Brunswick, NJ 08901
Phone 848-932-7565
wsru@docs.rutgers.edu

" KB0014191 IDM IDM - NetID Activation - New Students "

Admit Role

This role is for newly Admitted Students that have NOT yet committed to attending Rutgers (by accepting their offer of admission). This provides very limited access to services and systems.

Newly admitted students need to wait 3 to 5 days after they receive their offer of admission before they can activate their NetIDs. They should receive an email with instructions to activate when they are in the system and able to do so. If they do not show up in OR, or they have issues activating their NetID, they just need to wait and try a few days after they receive their offer of admission.

Admit students do NOT need to accept their offer of admission to activate their NetID. However, activating a NetID is required to view financial aid information, which usually becomes available in early March.

Admit Coming Role

This role indicates a new student has committed to going to Rutgers and accepted their offer of admission. Access to most services requires an Admit Coming role.

Prospective students who have Accepted to start Rutgers in the Fall or Spring sessions must pay a $150 acceptance fee ($200 for graduate students) before they are listed as an incoming student in OR (OR will show them as "ADMIT COMING"). The timeline for application deadlines, admission decisions, and acceptance deadlines can be found on the Admissions Deadlines site. It may take up to 7 days after paying the acceptance fee before they are listed as an incoming student.





" KB0015172 IDM IDM - NetID Change Request "

If a user calls and asks for a NetID change, please notify your FT supervisory team right away (offer a call back if no one is available) and collect the basic information needed to create the incident.

Please do not guarantee that we can change their NetID and do not ask the user for a reason for the change.

If the user requests a NetID change, let them know you have escalated the request to FT staff for follow-up and offer in the meantime to assist with updating the email alias/displayed name, etc. Sample script:

"We will have to escalate your request to a full-time supervisor for approval. Let me create an incident for you and in the meantime, I can help you update your email address alias and display name if you desire."

Make sure they are aware of other alternatives that are available:

If their email name is a concern: set up an alias/updating their display name; to make their email more professional or to match any email format standard their department may require.
If spam is a concern: block junk mail senders, create rules or filters, etc. Spam is an unavoidable consequence of using email, and they will be back at the same level of spam given enough use of a new NetID.

If the user decides against a NetID change at any point, you can update the incident and resolve it as appropriate.

KBB0010107NetID Change Request



" KB0014735 IDM IDM - NetID Identity Merge "

If current or returning users are onboarded for a new role with incorrect or incomplete information, a secondary record may be created for them in the OpenRegistry. When this occurs, these records must be merged into a single record. Having more than one NetID can cause access issues for a user and needs to be addressed as soon as possible.

The identity merge process involves multiple groups: IDM, Help Desk, the ID Card office, and possibly Enterprise Messaging.

Please note that the group initiating the merge request is responsible for confirming that both records refer to the same individual, not two similar but distinct individuals.

Identity Merge Process Checklist

If an identity merge incident is identified, please follow the steps below.

The subject of the Incident should be: Merge NetID - NetID1, NetID2
Service Offering should be: NetID
Investigate the request and document the following:

Confirm which NetID includes the correct information.
Determine which, if any, of the NetIDs are active.
Determine what, if any, email accounts are associated with each NetID.
The Incident should be assigned to the OIT-HD - Identity Merge Assignment Group with the State set as New.
Steps for FT

*If you need any assistance with submitting a NetID merge request, please post a message in the esd_csq_redzone Slack Channel.

Assign yourself to the Incident.
Add directions in the Incident on which primary NetID to keep.

Example formatting of this process is:
Person has two entries in OR.

NetID: bk135 (keep active)
RcpID: 9999209
First Name: Billy
Last Name: Kee
DOB: 09/26/2016 - Correct
SSN: Fake (RUID)
NetID LDAP Status: active
LDAP Campus Services: student:nb:enabled, student:google:enabled
SOR Source: Rutgers
PHI: N

NetID: bk212
RcpID: 9987841
First Name: Barkha
Last Name: Kip
DOB: 09/09/2016 - Wrong
SSN: Fake (Psuedo)
NetID LDAP Status: inactive
LDAP Campus Services: none
SOR Source: Rutgers
PHI: N

Please merge under NetID: bk135. There are no accounts affected by this merge so it can be done at any time.



Email IPO-ID Card office for input on ID card info using the email feature in Service Now:



TO: ID Card Office <iam@ipo.rutgers.edu>

SUBJECT: Identity Merge: <netid1>, <netid2>, <netid3>, etc. (INCxxxx)

BODY:

Hello ID Card Office,
Please provide ID card info for the NetID(s) listed below that are related to the identity merge ticket: INCxxxx
The first NetID listed at the top is the NetID to remain/keep, and all other NetIDs will be deleted.
<netid1>
<netid2>
<netid3>
...
Kindly reply to this email to ensure the information in the reply is associated correctly with the ticket referenced above.
For any questions, please refer to the above-mentioned ticket and contact the OIT-Help Desk.
Thank you
The
IPO-ID Card office would reply to emails received from ServiceNow with info about ID cards.


After the IPO-ID Card office replies, Help Desk must then create an incident task and assign it to EAS - Identity and Access Management, summarizing the analysis and identifying when to schedule the NetID change.
Incident Task Short Description:
Identity Merge: <netid1>, <netid2>, <netid3>, etc. (INCxxxx)
Description:
NetID to keep - There should only be one.
NetID(s) to delete/join - There can be one or more.
Other identifiers to keep (e.g., if multiple SSNs, which SSN is correct) - If not applicable, then write "n/a" instead of leaving it empty.
Paste the reply from the IPO-ID Card office into the task. If you forget, IdM will ask for their reply before processing the task, causing a delay.
Timing - A specific date or date range in the future (with at least 3 days' notice, preferably). This is dependent on email services:

If no email accounts are affected by the change, it can be noted that "the merge can happen at any time".
If the user keeps the NetID active, with the corresponding email accounts they wish to keep, this is considered not to affect any accounts.
If the NetID being kept active is NOT the NetID that has the email accounts they wish to keep, you will need to schedule the NetID change.

ScarletMail: Changes are only made on Tuesday and Thursday. They MUST be logged out of everything on that day between Noon and 5 PM, and cannot log in on ScarletMail until after 8 PM that day.
Rutgers Connect: After the merge, the user's 365 User Principal Name (UPN) must be updated. The user will need to wait 30 minutes after the change is made before they can access their Rutgers Connect Account.
Send an email from your dedicated campus full-time email group at least 24 hours in advance:
To: root@{affected systems}
CC: <your dedicated campus full-time email group> & hd_support@oit.rutgers.edu.
Requesting the email merge at the scheduled time, and it should include the details:
Old NetID
New NetID
Incident Number
RP (responsible person)
The onus will fall back to the Help Desk after the merge is complete to contact the user and resolve the Incident.

" KB0010777 IDM IDM - NetID Lock Request "

Departments may request to lock a NetID for faculty or staff for their department. If calls come in through the Help Desk or through UCS Direct, create a ticket for the caller, but do not include any information identifying the faculty/staff member or the reason for locking the NetID. Keep in mind that the caller may specify that they want to lock, delete, close, or suspend the faculty/staff member's NetID, account or services, and we will need to clarify what they mean.

To lock a NetID, request the user to send a written notice to hd_mgr@oit.rutgers.edu.

The request must come from a person of authority (dean, director, or department chair) in the same department as the user.
If the request is coming from a department's IT staff, a person of authority must be CC'ed on the request.
The request should include what they want to be restricted (all NetID services, email only, etc).
The request should include when they want the NetID to be restricted (immediately, "after 5pm", etc).

" KB0015708 IDM IDM - NetID+ and Duo Support "

Table of Contents
Support Notes
Bypass Codes
Removing Lost or Stolen Devices
Adding or activating a new authentication device
Excessive Authorization Failures
Images of DUO Tokens
Duo Hardware Tokens
Out-of-sync Hardware Token / Resync DUO Token
Encourage Duo Push
Traveling Abroad
Why am I not receiving Duo Push notifications?
Support Notes

If any users call in with questions regarding support for Duo, please refer to the Rutgers IT site documentation or the Duo user guide:

Two-step Login - Rutgers IT Website
Duo Guide to Two-Factor Authentication

If your question cannot be answered by Rutgers IT or Duo documentation, please refer to a full-time staff with Duo Admin access for assistance.

Bypass Codes

A bypass code is a temporary passcode created by full-time staff for a specific user. These are generally used as backup codes, so that users who are having problems with their mobile devices (e.g., mobile service is disrupted, the device is lost or stolen, etc.) can still access their Duo-protected systems. Bypass codes can also be used to allow a temporary user access to applications that do not support self-enrollment without having enrolled a device. Bypass codes expire after being used 2 times or after 120 minutes, whichever comes first.

Bypass code policy: to maintain security the following guidelines for issuing bypass codes should be observed. The user's identity needs to be verified, only FT can generate bypass codes, and a second person needs to handle the code. Similar to the procedure for password resets.

To enter a bypass code select the Bypass code option when prompted to choose your authentication method.

DUO documentation for generating a bypass code

Removing Lost or Stolen Devices

Always stress to users that they should contact the OIT Help Desk immediately if their 2FA authentication device is lost or stolen.

If a user reports a lost or stolen device, that device should be removed from the system immediately by full-time staff. Let the user know that the device can be added back once it is found or recovered. Remember: deleting a phone in this manner removes it from all associated users immediately (an important consideration if a phone is associated with multiple users, whether this is the case can be ascertained by clicking on the number in the user s profile and looking at the top of the page) therefore it is important that you talk to the user and make sure that the device is actually lost/stolen and not just in the possession of another associated user. When the device is recovered, it can be added to the user again and Duo Mobile can be reactivated.

DUO documentation for dealing with lost or stolen phones

Adding or activating a new authentication device

Users may add a new device via the self-service portal. Users may only add a new device via the self-service portal if they have access to another previously-activated authentication device or a bypass code. When adding a new device, if it is not successful at first attempt, use an incognito window. If they do not have access to either, then a full-time staff member must remove the previously-activated device (if the user no longer has it in their possession) or provide them a bypass code.

Excessive Authorization Failures

If a user initiates two factor authentication via any of the supported methods, but failed to complete the action then that counts as an Authorization Failure. If a user accrues 50 failure attempts, then the account will be locked and the user will need to wait 15 minutes until they can try again.

If the user calls within the 15 minute lockout window then an admin can login and manually change that user s status from Locked Out to Active or Bypass .

DUO documentation for changing a user s status

Images of DUO Tokens

Duo Hardware Tokens

Users who want to use a hardware token to authenticate using Duo can request using the Software Portal. On software.rutgers.edu search for the type of token and click on the product page that applies to them.

Security Hardware Token for Faculty/Staff

Security Hardware Token for Students

Security Hardware Token for Guests, Retirees and Emeritus

Out-of-sync Hardware Token / Resync DUO Token

A user's token may become out of sync if the button is pressed too many times. If a token becomes out of sync, the user can reset it by following the below steps:

Login to the NetID Management application by clicking on Manage NetID Password and entering their credentials. DUO authentication is required.
This step is required to display the next step.
The left-hand side of the window will update. Choose Resync Hardware Token in the left-hand menu.
The serial number drop-down will list the serial numbers of all the DUO hardware tokens the user has enrolled in. User has to select the token they want to sync from the drop down and enter 3 different passcodes generated through the hardware token in the text boxes and click Resync Hardware Token. There is about a 30 second wait for DUO tokens to get the next passcode. If all passcode values are entered correctly, the token will be resynced and the user will see a success message.

If a user is unable to do this, a person with duo admin access will need to follow the directions listed here:

DUO documentation for resynchronizing tokens

Encourage Duo Push

Always encourage your users to use the Duo Push, if possible. Duo Push is the best option: it is the most secure way of authenticating and the cheapest (there are no telephony charges for push authentication although data usage charges may apply). Users can also push if they do not have cell service as long as they are connected to WiFi, and it works in any country.

Traveling Abroad

All available authentication methods should work. If cellular service or internet access are not available, the push method will not be available. In this case, mobile app generated passcodes or a hardware token can still be used.

Why am I not receiving Duo Push notifications?

First, ensure that the user allows notifications on their phone.

You may have trouble receiving push requests if there are network issues between your phone and our service. Many phones have trouble determining whether to use the WiFi or cellular data channel when checking for push requests, and simply turning the phone to airplane mode and back to normal operating mode again often resolves these sort of issues, if there is a reliable internet connection available. Similarly, the issue may be resolved by turning off the WiFi connection on your device and using the cellular data connection. A Duo Push notification is only 2 KB.

Check the time and date on your phone and make sure they are correct. If the date and time on your phone are manually set, try changing your device's configuration to sync date and time automatically with the network.

In some cases, a user may experience issues using duo while abroad in other countries. Have the user do the following:

In a browser, please attempt to reach the following link: https://api.duosecurity.com/auth/v2/ping

Successful access will display a response code like this: "response": {"time": 1445354727}, "stat": "OK"} If you are able to access the URL above, check the certificate used to access that site by clicking on the icon beside "https://" in your browser bar. The certificate should be issued by duosecurity.com. If it is issued by some other site, then there is likely an SSL proxy. In that case, make an exception in the SSL proxy for duosecurity.com. If you are not able to access the URL above, or do not receive a JSON response code similar to the example, there may be a firewall rule in place preventing communication. Unfortunately, we do not have the ability to assist with firewall issues as the restrictions are set in place by your local ISP.

In-depth troubleshooting guides for Duo Push delivery for iOS and Android.

Link for DUO Help Desk Guide PDF

" KB0014787 IDM IDM - OpenRegistry Information Changes "

Users may contact the Help Desk to update certain information, such as their name or email address, in the NetID database. This article outlines how to assist the user depending on their role(s) in OpenRegistry.

Students

If the user can log in using their NetID and password, direct them to personalinfo.rutgers.edu if they wish to change:

Emergency contact (parent, guardian, etc.)
Emergency phone number (for receiving Rutgers emergency text alerts)
Home address
Phone number
Official Rutgers email address
Personal (non-Rutgers) email address
(Unofficial or Nickname) First Name

Note: This only affects the name shown in http://search.rutgers.edu/, not their official name shown in OpenRegistry.

Direct the user to the Office of the Registrar (also known as One Stop Student Services) at https://rutgers.force.com/OneStopPortal/s/ if they cannot log in using their NetID and password, or they wish to change any information not listed above.

If a user is part of RBHS and their student role source listed in OpenRegistry is Banner, they should be able to update the above information in Banner Self Service via the myRutgers Portal. If they are not able to update their information via Banner Self Service, direct the user to contact their school s Registrar listed at https://oasa.rbhs.rutgers.edu/registrar/rbhs-school-information-contacts/. If their school is not listed on this page, direct the user to contact the general RBHS Registrar at https://oasa.rbhs.rutgers.edu/contact-us/

Faculty, Staff, or Student Worker

If the user can log in using their NetID and password, direct them to personalinfo.rutgers.edu if they wish to change:

Emergency phone number (for receiving Rutgers emergency text alerts)
Personal (non-Rutgers) email address
Official Rutgers Email Address
Directory Listing First Name and Last Name

Note: This only affects the name shown in http://search.rutgers.edu/, not their official name shown in Open Registry

If the user can log in using their NetID and password, direct them to https://my.rutgers.edu/ > Employee Self Service > PeopleSoft > Self Service > Personal Information if they wish to change:

Home/Mailing Addresses
Phone Numbers
Emergency Contacts
Ethnic Group(s)
Job Location(s)

If the user can log in using their NetID and password and wishes to change their name, date of birth, or Social Security Number, direct the user to http://onesource.rutgers.edu/ > Service Catalog > Personal Data > DOB/SSN/Name Change

Direct the user to contact the OneSource Rutgers Faculty and Staff Service Center at (732) 745-SERV (7378) or OneSource@Rutgers.edu if the user cannot log in with their NetID and password or if they wish to change any information not listed above

Note: If the user s department has its own HR department, direct the user to the departmental HR instead of OneSource.

If the user is part of RBHS and their faculty, staff, or student worker role source listed in OpenRegistry is Banner, their information can only be updated by IdM. Change the Assignment Group of the incident in ServiceNow to EAS - Identity and Access Management , or create an incident task assigned to EAS - Identity and Access Management .

Guest

Direct the user to contact their sponsor listed in OpenRegistry

If the user is part of RBHS, they should contact their patron. Note, this is NOT the same as their sponsor. A supervisor should be able to locate a user s patron by selecting Audit Roles in OR and looking at the NetID listed in red next to User .

Alternatively, reassign the incident to the appropriate group in ServiceNow or direct the user to contact their IT department
If the user requests contact information for their sponsor or patron, only use the public-facing contact information found in https://search.rutgers.edu/.

If the user is not part of RBHS and a Full-Time supervisor is available, or this is a time-sensitive issue, verify the user s identity as you would for a password reset. Once identity is verified, contact a Full-Time supervisor to make the change.

Alumni

If the user s alumni role source is SRDB in OpenRegistry, their information can only be updated by IdM. Create an incident task assigned to EAS - Identity and Access Management .

If the user s alumni role source is not SRDB in OpenRegistry, direct the user to contact the Office of the Registrar at https://rutgers.force.com/OneStopPortal/s/.

Admit Coming

Users with this role will not be able to log in to http://personalinfo.rutgers.edu/, so direct the user to contact the Office of the Registrar at https://rutgers.force.com/OneStopPortal/s/.

If a user is part of RBHS, direct the user to contact their school s Registrar listed at https://oasa.rbhs.rutgers.edu/registrar/rbhs-school-information-contacts/. If their school is not listed on this page, direct the user to contact the general RBHS Registrar at https://oasa.rbhs.rutgers.edu/contact-us/

Emeritus/Retiree

Direct the user to contact the OneSource Rutgers Faculty and Staff Service Center at (732) 745-SERV (7378) or OneSource@Rutgers.edu if the user cannot log in with their NetID and password, or they wish to change any information not listed above

Note: If the user s department has its own HR department, direct the user to the departmental HR instead of OneSource.

" KB0015014 IDM IDM - Processing Early Employee NetIDs "

The Early Employee NetID Request System is an enterprise self-service tool that enables an employee (faculty or staff) who has not been on-boarded through RIAS to submit a request to obtain a digital identity at Rutgers University. The request will be processed by the appropriate campus help desk. The employee will then be notified with instructions to obtain and activate their digital identifier called a NetID. *For AH FT only: Please process all EEs, no matter the campus.*

Any faculty member, full-time staff member, or graduate assistant whose information has been entered into the RIAS III payroll system ("on-boarded") and approved by University Human Resources can activate a NetID. If the faculty/staff member needs a NetID before the entry is approved then the departmental payroll person can apply for an Early Employee NetID. A valid SSN is required for an Early Employee NetID.

Early Employee NetIDs can be processed by doing the following:

Go to http://registry.rutgers.edu and log in
Under Process Early Employee NetID click on Search Pending Requests
Click Find Requests
Click on the Request ID to read any special notes
Click Claim
Click Process
Compare the department listed on the EE NetID Request to the Department/School/Unit listed on the Sponsor's active role in OR (click on the sponsor's NetID in the guest request list to see their active roles). If they are not similar (does not have to be an identical match but should be close), deny the request with a comment that the departments must be the same.
Click Add Person to search for the user
Look through the pages of results that come up to see if the person is already in the system. Pay attention to the birthdate and SSN.
If the person is listed and they do not have an active Faculty or Staff role click on Add Role
If the person is there and has an active Faculty or Staff role Deny the request
If the person is not listed click on Add New person and role

For instructions on reviewing or looking up the status of a request, please read: Early Employee and Guest NetIDs Requests Status KA

" KB0015028 IDM IDM - Processing RCPID Requests "

An RCPID is an identification number that can be found in Open Registry.

Every Rutgers user has their own unique RCPID. RCPID's are typically used for F1/J1 International visitors coming to the university. The form to request an RCPID request can be found at http://rcpid-requests.rutgers.edu. We do not accept RCPID's via e-mail due to the information that is listed on it. Typically when a RCPID account is made, there will be a Guest NetID that is visible in Open Registry. These accounts are only valid for 7 days. The account is solely made to give the user the RCPID number. The usual RCPID request is handled within two business days. If there are any issues beyond this make sure to e-mail accounts@oit.rutgers.edu or contact a Full-Time staff member.

Process RCPID Requests by doing the following:

Go to https://rcpid-requests.rutgers.edu/ and log in.
Click on the name of the person the RCPID is being requested for.
Go to http://registry.rutgers.edu and log in.
Click on Add Person.
Fill out the users First Name, Last Name and Birthdate.
Click Add Person to search for the user.
Look through the pages of results that come up to see if the person is already in the system. Pay attention to the birthdate and SSN.

If the person is listed and they do not have a Guest role click on Add Role.
If the person is listed and they had/have a role, note the NetID and skip to step 11.
If the person is not listed click on Add New person and role.
Choose Guest and Add Role.
Fill out the form using the information from the request:

Role End date: should be 1 week after the request was made.
Department: find the best match if the exact department is not listed. Looking at the Sponsor's Department in OR can help and you may use that one if appropriate.
Account Reason: should be J1 Visa.
Email: use no-reply@oit.rutgers.edu and check the box for Don't Send Account Creation Notification Emails to Guest and Sponsor.
Sponsor: enter the NetID of the sponsor.
Herd Expiration Date: set to be the same as the Role End Date.
Click Add Role and note the NetID.
Look the user up on http://registry.rutgers.edu and note the RCPID number.
Create an incident in Service Now for the sponsor.

Service Offering: NetID
Assignment Group: NB-HD - Full Time Supervisors
Short Description: RCPID Request
Description: Processed request for [NAME]
Save the incident.
Use the response template for RCPID requests and resolve the incident:


------------------------------------------------------------------------

Subject: RCPID Requests

Hello,

Thank you for contacting OIT. The RCPID Number you requested is:

Name:

NetID:

RCPID:

Thank you
Account Support

Approve the request in the RCPID request system.

" KB0014318 IDM IDM - Pseudo SSNs "

Faculty/Staff

A payroll pseudo SSN is assigned to a user who does not have a valid SSN in the system. By leaving the SSN field blank, a string of 9s is entered instead by the payroll system automatically. To activate their NetID, the user would input "999999999" as their SSN for the time being. They should speak with their payroll personnel in order to update their SSN in the system, as they should have applied for an SSN when starting their position.

Guests

University Guests who are added to Open Registry without a SSN will be provisioned with a unique pseudo SSN. The accounts office will send the 9 digits of the pseudo SSN to the sponsor who should then provide it to the Guest.

The Help Desk can provide a pseudo SSN to the Guest if they verify identity by one of the standard verification methods we would use for a password reset (non-Rutgers email, phone number, CVC). We may also provide it to a Rutgers sponsor if they request it and verify their identity through the same methods.

The pseudo SSN can be provided by consultants over the phone or in person. Optionally, a FT who processes Guest Requests can send the pseudo SSN from the accounts@oit email account.



" KB0014197 IDM IDM - RBHS Guest Info Corrections "

If a guest associated with RBHS's information has been incorrectly entered into the registry, the user should contact the sponsoring department/sponsor or the person who entered the guest into the registry. If the user does not have this information, the sponsor's NetID may be found in Open Registry. You may use their NetID to find public-facing information for the sponsor on Rutgers Search.



" KB0014342 IDM IDM - RCPID overview "

An RCPID is a standardized identification number that can be found in Open Registry.

Every Rutgers user has their own unique RCPID. RCPID's are typically used for F-1/J-1 International visitors coming to the university. The form to request an RCPID request can be found at this RCPID Requests page. RCPID requests are typically handled within two business days. We do not accept RCPID's via e-mail due to the information that is listed on it.

Typically when an RCPID is created, an additional Guest NetID will be made that is visible in Open Registry. These accounts are only valid for 7 days, and are solely made to give the user their RCPID number. We do not accept RCPID requests via e-mail due to the identification information that is required. If you encounter any issues beyond these examples, contact a Full-Time staff member for assistance.

" KB0019351 IDM IDM - Retiring the Duo Phone Call Option "

As part of the ongoing commitment to protecting the Rutgers University community from evolving cyber threats, the Office of Information Technology (OIT) retired the "Call Me" (telephone callback) authentication option for Duo, effective Wednesday, March 25th, 2026.

Why is this change happening?

In recent months, higher education institutions nationwide have seen a significant increase in sophisticated phishing attacks. The telephone callback method is increasingly vulnerable, making it a primary target for attackers attempting to compromise university accounts.

To safeguard Rutgers' systems and protect personal data, we are aligning with industry best practices by deprecating the phone call option and transitioning to more secure verification methods.

What are the recommended alternatives?

To guarantee uninterrupted access to University services and resources, users must switch to one of the following supported methods:

Duo mobile app with Verified Duo Push (Highly Recommended)

The most secure and convenient way to authenticate is by using the Duo Mobile app on your smartphone or tablet. Verified Duo Push provides an extra layer of security.

The Duo mobile app can also generate offline passcodes if you are traveling or lack cellular/Wi-Fi service.

Learn how to use Verified Duo Push.

SMS Text Passcodes (For Basic Mobile Phones)

If the user has a mobile phone that can receive text messages but cannot or prefers not to use the Duo Mobile app, they can choose to authenticate using SMS passcodes. They must ensure your registered device is set up in Duo as a mobile phone capable of receiving SMS messages.

Learn how to use SMS passcodes with Duo.

Hardware Token (For Landline or Non-Smartphone Users)

If they do not have a smartphone or if their primary authentication device is a landline that cannot receive SMS text messages or run the Duo app, they will need to use a hardware token.

Learn how to obtain and use a Duo Hardware Token.

What do users need to do?

Users should still have an alternative authentication method. Follow the instructions on how to enroll a new Duo device. This will guide users in viewing their current Duo authentication methods and adding a new one if needed.

Exempt users

An exception list will allow approximately 600 users who rely exclusively on phone call verification to continue using that option until April 22nd. An email message to the 600 exempted users will provide guidance on moving to options other than phone calls by April 22. If they did not get an email with subject: Action required: Change your Duo verification method they are not exempt. If Duo had registered the phone as a device type that supports Duo Mobile, they would not be exempt. Only users who use the phone call option on a landline, with no other registered Duo devices, would be on the exempt list.

" KB0012272 IDM IDM - SecurID Tokens "

SecurID tokens are used to access the Rutgers University Administrative Mainframe System (RUTADMIN). The OIT Help Desk is a location in New Brunswick where faculty/staff can pick up their SecureID token if they cannot wait for one to be mailed to them. These tokens expire every few years.

The recipient is here to pick it up

Spare SecurID tokens will be stored in Center Square in the drawer labeled SecurID . If a user calls, emails, or walks into the Help Desk with a question about picking up their token, please notify Level 3 or FT. The Level 3 or FT will check their ID and look up the incident. If they are picking up a SecurID token for someone else, make sure this is stated in the incident. Please do not give a user more than one token.

If they have an incident
Locate the pre-existing Incident.
Verify ID via normal methods.
Note the serial number of the token given to the user as a Work Note.
Move the incident into Assignment Group: NB-HD - Level 3
Change the Assigned to field to yourself.
Resolve the incident using the Help@OIT DUO Token or SecurID Pick-up response template once the SecurID has been picked up.
Service Offering must be set to Token Distribution or Software Portal for the template to appear.
They will have to contact EAS to complete setting up their SecurID token.
If they do not already have an incident
Please ask the user to contact Lorretta Onwubu (848-445-7544). You should not give out any SecureID unless there is an incident associated with the user.
Disposing of old tokens

Old SecurID tokens should be disposed of with recyclables.

Tracking spare tokens

If the Help Desk supply of tokens drops under 5, please send Lorretta Onwubu (lonwubu@oit.rutgers.edu) an email and copy eas_systemaccess@email.rutgers.edu informing her we need more spares.

" KB0014413 IDM IDM - Turnaround Database "

The Turnaround Database is a tool for determining what credentials a user needs and how long it takes for a user to be able to log in to a certain application. To log into most applications, a user will need an active NetID and password.

When an application states that it checks LDAP, that means that it first looks to see if the user has an active account. If they do not, it will check to see if they have an active role in the PDB (People Database). If a user does not have an active account and/or role, the user will not be able to authenticate into anything that uses LDAP.

Applications that use CAS (Central Authentication Service) for authentication allow a user to log in 30 minutes after NetID activation. For a user to log into CAS, the user must have an active NetID and the correct password.

Applications that use CAS for authentication are the following:

Rutgers Portal https://my.rutgers.edu/portal
SAS - Gradebook https://secure.fas.rutgers.edu

Faculty/Staff are able to add courses. Students are able to view grades.
Ethics Reporting Web page https://uec.rutgers.edu/

Allows Faculty/Staff to log in.
Final Exams Web page https://scheduling.rutgers.edu/exam-scheduling/final-exams/

Allows students to log in to view their customized exam schedule. There is a white list for administrators (Faculty/Staff) that can also log in.
RIAS III http://rias.rutgers.edu/
ScarletMail http://scarletmail.rutgers.edu/index.php

User must have an active ScarletMail account.

Other Applications:

Rutgers Software Portal https://software.rutgers.edu/

User must have a Faculty, Staff, or Student role. Guests cannot log in.
Canvas https://canvas.rutgers.edu
Computer Labs Login

Uses LDAP. Does not allow users with only an Alumni role to log in.
Libraries

Not available to users with only Alumni, Guest, and Retiree Guest roles.
Parktran Web Services https://ipo.rutgers.edu/dots

Check to make sure user has valid NetID. Users can log in 48-72 hours after NetID activation.
Type 1 & Type 2 Employees can use the online webform to obtain a parking permit. Type 3 and Type 4 must go to the Public Safety Building and obtain the permit in person.
Resnet Registration it.rutgers.edu/resnet

Uses LDAP.
RU Wireless

Uses LDAP and user must have Student, Faculty, Staff, or Guest role.
SSH Login

User must have an active account on the system they are trying to access.
VPN https://vpn.rutgers.edu

Uses LDAP, any role.

" KB0015085 IT Help Desk - Application Support After-Hours - ITS Escalation Procedures "

The NB-ITS Help Desk closes at 4:30 pm Monday-Friday and is closed on weekends. Users who call the NB-ITS Help Desk after it has closed will be presented with the option to speak to an NB HD After-Hours consultant. This article will provide you with guidance on how to handle some common ITS issues. If you cannot assist the user, please let the user know that you will be moving their ticket, and an ITS specialist will assist them during regular business hours. If the user indicates their issue is an emergency, please use the FT on-call list. If you are unsure if the user is supported by ITS know that ITS supports most users who land in the Echo domain on Connect.

Incidents that need to be handed off to the NB ITS Help Desk should be placed in the ESD - Information Technology Services (ITS) assignment group.

Unlocking ITS Account

If a user's ITS account is locked, you must reassign the incident to the ESD - Information Technology Services (ITS) assignment group. After-hours staff cannot unlock ITS accounts.

Creating/Recreating New ITS User Account

If a user needs to create a new ITS user account, you can get them started on the process by doing the following:

Verify if the user is a Full Time Staff member or a student worker.
Provide the following link to the user:

Full-Time staff: https://its.rutgers.edu/services/its-account-creation-and-reactivation-regular-staff
Student worker: https://its.rutgers.edu/services/its-account-creation-and-reactivation-student-staff
The user will be asked to log in
Select the link for the request form
The form will generate a sys admin ticket for ITS staff to follow up on
At this point,t you can notify the user that the ITS Help Desk will be reaching out to them to schedule a new user orientation
New User Orientation

If a user asks to schedule a new user orientation, you will need to reassign the incident to the ESD - Information Technology Services (ITS) assignment group.

If a user asks what is part of a new user orientation you can provide the following information:

Set up Outlook, also inform them of connect.rutgers.edu.
Change Default PDF user to Adobe Reader (or Acrobat if their computer has it).
Take note of programs on the desktop, if they don t need something you can get rid of it and remove the label off KACE, if they need a piece of software they don t have, start the process of getting it.
Change the Default Mail program to Outlook.
Change the default browser to their desired default.
Show users the Snipping Tool. This will help capture error messages when they want to talk to the Help Desk.
Make user aware they should not Shut Down ever. We do updates at night, and we must keep their computers updated with security patches.
Show them how to log off/lock the computer instead.
Teach them how to interact with the help desk.
Point out the stickers on their monitor, the contact info, and the computer name.
Explain its a good idea to reboot first before calling with a support issue.
If emailing, include call back number, department, computer name, and suitable time to call back.
Set them up with remote desktop and VPN instructions if they need them. This can be found on its.rutgers.edu/documentation.
Do the same for email on the phone.
Show them the shortcut to the ITS website that is on their desktop.
Connecting to RUWireless secure
You can provide general RUWireless troubleshooting using the following KB:

https://ithelp.rutgers.edu/sp?id=kb_article&sysparm_article=KB0012539&sys_kb_id=b5d76e158737f01056be426d8bbb355f&spa=1

If the user cannot connect to RUwireless Secure, the incident must be triaged to the ESD - Information Technology Services (ITS) assignment group. The ITS Help Desk will then schedule for the user to either come to the RFO office or a field tech to go out to the user s location.

Cisco VPN (AnyConnect)

Utilize the KA: https://it.rutgers.edu/guides/remote-access-with-anyconnect-virtual-private-network/

Hardware Delivery

If a user wants to have new or used hardware delivered to them, a ticket will need to be created with the following information:

What the item is, and is it used or new
If it is a used item, such as a keyboard, mouse, or monitor, the ITS help desk will work with the field team to deliver and install the item
If it is a new item, the request is sent to field support so that they can begin the procurement process

Once new item is received after procurement, field support schedules pick up or delivery with the user (depending on the item)
Computer Renewal

If a user requests a computer renewal, the incident will need to be triaged to the ESD - Information Technology Services (ITS) assignment group.

" KB0014806 IT Help Desk - Application Support "After-Hours - Support Board (Visual Task Board, VTB) " "

The After-hours Support Board is a visual task board on ServiceNow dedicated to tracking events that may directly impact users and services during your shift.
All after-hours consultants are expected to create, update, and transition cards through lanes as events occur.
Applications/AH Support Board
Lanes
The support board contains 5 lanes, in which status cards can be dragged and dropped as you progress through an event:
Scheduled 1 Day: Single day events that are scheduled in advance.
Scheduled 2+ Days: Multiple day/month-long maintenance events that are scheduled in advance.
Critical/Active: Sudden events that impact operations (systems/services/environment).
Operational Changes: Alterations to IT services and infrastructure to improve service quality.
Completed: Events that occurred in the last 2 months.
Creation of Cards

A card can be created by selecting +Add card in any appropriate lane.

Scheduled events will be received via email and copied/pasted into a status card.
Pertinent emails are sent to the following email addresses:
ei_maintenance@email.rutgers.edu
KACE Support (and similar KACE emails that start with kbox followed by a number).
ECS HD - Afterhours Support (operator@oit.rutgers.edu).
Any other email that may come in announcing maintenance or a change to a Rutgers service (e.g. Canvas, CAS, servers, etc.)
The naming convention of new tasks is:
Scheduled 1 Day	day, date - title/subject
Scheduled 2+ Days	month - title/subject
Operational Changes	Change numbers
The card should be expanded, and Description should include the details of the event or a copy/paste of the email received.
The Assignment field will not be used at this time and should be left blank.
The Due Date field is mandatory and should reflect the start time/first day of the event.
Please note use the first day of a multiple day/month-long event.
Additional comments can be used when needed for relevant notes of the event.
Cards should be created for events immediately when:
Service degradation is confirmed.
The service outage is experienced.
Email is received with scheduled maintenance.
An environmental issue has been noticed.
Example:

1 Day:

2+ Days:

Updating Cards
Cards should be updated and transitioned through lanes as events progress. Any additional actions taken by a consultant are expected to be included in the Additional comments of the card(s). Additional actions may include additional communications (email, phone, Slack) sent/received, action(s) taken because of noted call load impact, VIP inquiries, etc.

*Please note Multiple day/month-long events will show Due Dates in red while the time frame is active. Only move such cards to Completed once the entire maintenance time frame is complete. Example:

Lane Changes
Scheduled events shift to Completed when the timeframe of a scheduled event ends or there is updated communication stating maintenance is finished.
Critical/Active shifts to Completed when the system/service returns to full functionality and there is no lingering impact.
Operational Changes shift to Completed when the timeframe of a scheduled event ends or there is updated communication stating maintenance is finished.
Deleting Cards
Under no circumstances should the cards be deleted from the board. Management will clear the completed events promptly (events more than 24 hours old). Please note that all changes to this board are logged/archived.
*Please work with your co-workers or speak to management if you have any questions or uncertainties on proceeding with status board updates.*

" KB0014877 IT Help Desk - Application Support General - Student Data Warehouse Refresh "

Within the hd_notify inbox we will receive emails with a status on Student Data Warehouse (SDW) and Course Data Warehouse (CDW) Load processes. These feeds control both course information and student data (classes, transcripts, etc.). When the load process is delayed, then obviously updates are not available to the databases, which in turn has an impact on the course load and student data information available to students.

Ops should watch for emails within hd_notify. In the event you receive this message:

Help Desk, the Student Data Warehouse refresh will be late

You can then inform callers that There was a delay in overnight processing, please try again tomorrow".

" KB0014960 IT Help Desk - Application Support Help Desk Communications Newark - Camden "

Background Information on current protocol

Within 15 minutes of a system slowdown, failure, or outage the system administrator is to notify the campus help desk of the situation. When the situation is resolved, the system administrator is to notify the campus help desk with the status update.

The help desk receiving that call is responsible for notifying the other two campus help desks of the situation. The help desks are to notify other support units according to their procedures. Users are to be notified within one hour of the problem.

Operations Role

Currently, Operations is responsible for notifying the NB Help Desk of any possible system problem after 15 minutes of continuous occurrence. The Help Desk will then notify the Help Desks of Newark and Camden. This process can only happen during HD business hours (when the NB Help Desk is open).

The Camden and Newark Help Desks have been supplied with the phone number of the Operations Department, to be used when they experience a degradation in service and the NB Help Desk is closed. Should Operations receive a call from either Help Desk reporting a degradation in service, Operations should collect as much information as possible from the caller (Service degradation information, as well as contact information). The Ops Consultant should then contact their Supervisor and/or Manager to relay the information and seek guidance on proper handling. The supervisor will likely ask the consultant to send an email to sc_ft@email.rutgers.edu with all the gathered data.

An email will also need to be sent to Operator with all collected information and details of the call. You may be asked to relay this email to other parties - so please be sure it contains as much information as possible.

Campus Help Desk Information

The following contact information has been distributed to each of the Campus Help Desks.

Camden contact info

856-225-6274 or
856-225-6065 enter 0 at prompt
help@camden.rutgers.edu

Newark contact info

973-353-1745 x208 or
973-353-1731
help@newark.rutgers.edu

NB contact info

732-445-4357 x8661 primary during business hours
732-445-2456 alternate during business hours
732-445-2293 after Help Desk closes
Camden - After-Hours Support

If a request cannot be resolved by a member of the after-hours support team, please send an email to help@camden.rutgers.edu with the subject CMD HD After-Hours Support from the operator@oit persona. Please include the following details in this message:

Name, NetID, and Email of the requester.
Phone number where this person can be reached.
A short description of the issue.
A list of any troubleshooting steps taken during the call.

Please let the user know that someone from the Camden support team will be in touch the following morning, during our normal business hours.

Escalation Procedure

If the issue is urgent and requires immediate attention, or the user asks you to escalate to your management at home, please contact a Full-Time staff member.

Camden - Law School Exam Support

The Law School in Camden provides students with the opportunity to self-schedule their exam during the exam period. These self-scheduled exams do not require any specialized software. Students have access to their exam through the Law School s course webpage system (law.rutgers.edu/course). This site requires a NetID login and is restricted to only students, faculty and staff of the Law School.

The most important part of helping a law student with an exam question is to do your best to help the student stay calm. In most cases, law school classes have only one exam for the entire semester, so it can be extremely stressful for a law student to have a technical issue that could have a serious impact of their grade that semester.

Law Exams are also graded anonymously, so all law students are forbidden from contacting their professor for help.

Business Hours

If a law student is calling during the normal operating hours of the Camden Help desk, please transfer the call through the Internal Transfers - Camden option, so that a member of the Camden Help desk can assist the student.

After Hours

If a law student calls with a question about an exam after hours, please review the below FAQ to see if the question can be answered using the information below. The website is restricted to only students taking that exam, but there are a number of general questions that you can answer without having direct access to the exam itself.

Helpdesk staff should only assist with questions related to the process of retrieving their exam and uploading their answer. Any questions related to the exam itself or timing issues like how much time do I have left should never be answered by HD staff. The Law School appoints a Dean on Duty each day and night during exams and students should be directed to contact the Dean on Duty for any non-technical issue. The Dean on Duty Schedule can be found by directing the student to this site: https://law.rutgers.edu/current-students (Restricted to Law Students only) and clicking the Exam Packet for that semester under the Camden Resources tab. There they will find information about the exam session, as well as a link for the Dean on Duty Schedule.

If a student has completed their exam but is having trouble with uploading it, they should email a copy of their final submission (as an attachment) to lawexamsend@camden.rutgers.edu. This email will capture the date and time of submission so the student is not penalized for having issues with uploading their exam.

A record of every after-hours call regarding an exam should be sent to help@camden.rutgers.edu with the Subject CMD - HD After Hours Support from the operator@oit persona, this will create a ticket in their system. This includes calls where the student s question was answered by the FAQ.

Law School Exam FAQs
I forgot to attach my anonymous # to my submission.
Answer: The number is automatically attached to your exam when submitted.

I put the wrong exam number on my final, what should I do?
Answer: Don't worry, the system automatically puts your correct number on the exam. It won't remove the incorrect number, but your correct number will appear in bold as a footer of each page.

I forgot to note on my exam that I am a graduating senior, what should I do?
Answer: Don't worry, in the spring semester the system automatically notes that you are a graduating senior.

Should I contact my professor for questions on the exam or problems with downloading or uploading?
Answer: You should never contact your professor if you are experiencing technical difficulties with this system or the exam; instead notify help@camden.rutgers.edu or the dean on duty.

The text box would not accept my document when I attempt to cut and paste; what should I do?
Answer: Please use the file upload method.

I reviewed my exam in the box (cut and paste method), and it was fine. When I submitted it, all of a sudden there are no tabs at the beginning of the paragraph, is there something I can do about this?
Answer: Since you used the cut/paste method to submit your exam, you were extremely limited to what formatting you could use (essentially none). In the future, using the file upload method will preserve your tabs. You should not worry about the formatting of your exam. Professors are aware of the limitations of the system with respect to advanced formatting.

The professor has placed a word count on our exams. When working in my local word processor, I was within the word count, when I check my submitted exam online, the count is different; it s possibly even over. What Gives?
Answer: Unfortunately, word count varies from word processor to word processor. The count method takes a simple straight forward approach, and is why we state "approximately". In reviewing student's exams, we find that often simple spacing issues are overlooked (i.e. Sect.208 instead of Sect 208).

The professor requested that the exam be submitted in double space formatting. When I review the submission, the exam is single spaced, why is this?
Answer: We store the document in single space format. However, the professor has the option of receiving the exams in single or double space from us.

I am using Microsoft Word on an Apple Computer and am wondering if I will experience any issues?
Answer: The Law School fully supports the word document format available on PC and Mac.

HELP! I don't know my RUID number and the system will not give me my anonymous exam number until I enter it.
Answer: You can lookup your RUID number by following the link that appears on the Online Grade Reporting System webpage. Alternatively, you can access it directly at the following url: https://my.rutgers.edu/

" KB0014975 IT Help Desk - Application Support How to Report a Major Incident for IT Enterprise Services - Via Opsgenie "

Only Full Time, Supervisors or After-hours consultants should do the following. Any other Consultant should contact a Supervisor for guidance.

Create a new incident to be used as the Parent Incident with the following fields:
User: NB-HD - Application Support
Service Offering: one related to the service affected by the outage
Assigned to: yourself
Short Description: [SERVICE] issues
Description: should include
Service affected
Details of issues
Screenshots if applicable
Approximate timing of the issue
NetIDs of consultants/supervisors/full time able to replicate the issue
Send an email to the appropriate OpsGenie email with the exact subject shown in the guide: How to Report a Major Incident for IT Enterprise Services.
Include in the email:
Parent Incident number from step 1.
All information from the parent incident that was noted in the Description field.
The word urgent must be in the email's subject line before being sent, in order to automatically notify IT support teams of a major incident response (P1 critical).
If work After Hours with no Full Time on Staff, and you need to escalate a service not listed that we do not have other documentation on, please use the on-call list.
These reporting procedures cover the following systems and services:
IDM Services and tools:

CAS
Shibboleth
Kerberos
LDAP
DUO (2 FA)
Grouper
University Search (search.rutgers.edu)
NetID Management (Netid.rutgers.edu)
Personal Info (personalinfo.rutgers.edu)
Guest Request System (requests.rutgers.edu)
My Rutgers Portal
Enterprise Database and Data Management Services:

SRDB data
Financial Aid data
Payroll data
Banner data
Peoplesoft data
Elite ID Card
Learning Management Systems

Sakai
Canvas
Student Registration Services

WebReg
Schedule of Classes
Course Schedule Planner
Degree Navigator
Messaging and Collaboration

Office 365
ScarletApps (Google Suite)
Emergency Notification System (ENS)
Enterprise Document Solutions

Perceptive Content
Docusign
Post in the esd_nb_hd_all and esd_outage_degradation Slack channels and include:
Description of the issue
Parent Incident number so that child incidents can be added.
Resolving a Major Incident
After receiving confirmation from Service Owners or Full Time that the issue is resolved:
Have other consultants/supervisors/full time try to replicate the issue to confirm resolution.
If the issue is end-user specific and can not be tested by Help Desk Staff, contact a select number of users back to see if the issue is resolved for them.
After several help desk staff or end users confirm that the issue is resolved, a Supervisor, Full Time or After Hours consultant can close the Parent Incident.
Thread a comment on the Slack post in the esd_nb_hd_all and esd_outage_degradation Slack channels, stating that the issue is now resolved.

" KB0018075 IT Help Desk - Application Support IT Help Desk - Application Support - Support for university owned mobile phones "

Support Overview

RUWare information links:

The OIT Mobile Device Purchasing page is where users can find the Request Form for new orders, change their orders, change their devices' plans, and learn more about international dialing.
The Information Security page for RBHS supported devices listed by school or unit.

RUWare is open Monday through Friday, standard business hours (8:30 am to 5 pm).

Phone: 973-972-6236
Email: mobile@oit.rutgers.edu

All business mobile phones will be using one of the below carriers:

Verizon
AT&T

RUWare services are provided to staff from both Rutgers and University Hospital Newark.

Handling Call Activity

Be sure to ask the caller if they have an existing incident, and always reconfirm that their call-back number is not the same one associated with the relevant mobile phone. Incidents will be assigned to the RUN-IT - Ruware assignment group.

If the user has an existing incident assigned to the RUN-IT - Ruware assignment group, please do not move it out of the current assignment group. You may leave work notes on the incident in its current assignment group.

Ticket information will follow the standard OIT Help Desk procedures and include:

Confirmation that the phone is university-owned and the service provider is either Verizon or AT&T
The type of mobile phone, phone number, and model
IMEI number (if available)
SIM/ICCID card number (if available)
Support Notes for activity handled during business hours (no escalation)

Most service request activity will be handled during standard business hours.

International Data requests require prearrangement through RUWare, as the Verizon and AT&T Business offices provide international dialing service from 8 am to 4 pm, Monday through Friday.

Any request activity outside of those hours will be processed the following business day. All standard forms are available on the bottom of the Mobile Device Purchasing page.

Escalation Procedure

After-Hours support will begin escalation by contacting the first support contact person in the table below. If you do not make direct contact, leave a message with the incident number, brief details, and the Help Desk's callback number. Wait 10 minutes before reaching out to the second contact. Continue until you have reached one of the below people.

Support Contact

	

Phone Number




Nick Mezak

	

973-953-0650




Mary Jane Canfield

	

908-331-1491




Shelley Cousins

	

201-306-1724

" KB0011795 IT Help Desk - Application Support LMS - After-Hours LMS Escalation Procedures KB0015672 IT Help Desk - Application Support Machine Room - Fan Placement "

Please use the map below as a placement guide for fans in the data center during cooling issues. This setup should cover the three most common scenarios we have faced in the past:

Complete loss of cooling and airflow (CRAC blowers are off) due to a power failure.

In the case of #1: Fans should be deployed immediately; open exterior doors; open cold-isle doors.
Complete cooling loss - All CRACs display high head pressure.

In the case of #2 - Fans should be deployed immediately; Open exterior doors; Monitor cold-isle temps; Open cold-isle doors if/when temps inside/outside the isle equalize.
The loss of one or two CRACs of seven.

In the case of #3, fans should be deployed to the area of heat buildup and placed to direct the warm air toward a working CRAC, avoiding pushing warm air into cold aisles.

In all cases, fans should be directed according to the blue arrows, pointing upwards (~30 ) to prevent heat from accumulating at the ceiling in the data center.

" KB0015671 IT Help Desk - Application Support Machine Room and Environment Information "

You'll want to (ctrl+F) for the information you're looking for in this KA!

Table of Contents
Data Center Contacts
Generator
Loading Dock
Power Distribution Units (PDUs)
HVACS
Fan Placement
Fire Systems
Cage (COLO)
Rear door heat exchangers (RDHXs)
Data Center Event Notification Procedure
Rounds
Facilities
Fire Alarm Procedures
Data Center Contacts

Only the After Hours FT team, FT supervisors, and managers have access to the Contact List. If you are a student OIT consultant and no AH FT is on shift, please call the FT on-call list if an escalation to the data center contacts is needed.

Generator

The Hill Center is equipped with a diesel generator capable of powering the machine room for approximately 12 hours in the event of commercial power loss. In the event of unstable power, the generator will start automatically after 20 seconds and continue running until power is restored. For immediate backup power, we also have a limited UPS (Uninterruptible Power Supply) battery system. This system functions as a continuous source of electricity while the generator is cycling up. You will receive auto-generated emails whenever the generator powers on or off.

The mechanical room is where the UPS is located, and the audible alarms stem from there. The battery room is where the UPS battery system is located. The UPS is located in H019. The batteries are located in H047 (off the loading dock).

Loading Dock

The loading dock is where many deliveries to the Hill Center are made. During business hours, Application Support usually receives phone calls regarding deliveries to the Hill Center. There is a phone on the loading dock with the Operations phone number listed. The extension for this line is (5-4507).

Power Distribution Units (PDUs)

There are five PDUs (Power Distribution Units) located throughout the machine room, supplying conditioned power to the various equipment at all times. Each unit has an LCD that lists the current voltages and the device's status. The doors should remain closed at all times to avoid any electrical hazards. Audible alarms may occur under certain conditions.

Should you notice a PDU alarm during your round/shift, don't panic. Follow the LCD instructions to silence the alarm. Check your email for an automated message titled "Device Alarm". If no email was received -OR- if the email you received does not include specific instructions to escalate the issue, then send an email to ei_dcts@email.rutgers.edu and cc: operator@oit.rutgers.edu with the error information. These errors do not need to be escalated further; however, if you do have any questions or concerns, contact a supervisor.

"Communications Lost" alerts are typically caused by momentary network errors and resolve themselves when the device is polled again (~5 min). If the device is located in a remote data center (Liv-MDC), you should only reach out to John Wieczorek if the alert doesn't resolve within 15-20 minutes.

HVACS

Six HVAC Units are strategically located throughout the machine room. They maintain the room temperature at approximately 63 F year-round and also act as dehumidifiers. It is a closed system that requires regular maintenance. During a machine room round, a consultant must check under the floor of each unit for leaks and check the LED displays on each NC.

Overview

The machine room is equipped with 22-ton Liebert units with copper piping. The cooling capacity is 132 tons, with diffusers on each unit to evenly distribute airflow. In addition, their placement on the floor is to help reduce airflow". Each unit sits on a stand rather than on the floor to help reduce vibration in surrounding areas.
Product Information via Liebert: Liebert Deluxe System/3
Service

The monitoring system (Nform) has been set up to send an email if any alarms are triggered on any AC Unit. There are approximately 15 possible alarm conditions for each unit. Rutgers Facilities Maintenance will continue to maintain the HVAC system for the machine room.
Rutgers Facilities Maintenance maintains a service contract with Stillwell-Hansen, which includes quarterly PMs, parts, and labor.
For service during business hours, call:
1-800-LIEBERT (1-800-543-2378).
SITE ID: 37975
TAG #: 1554645
Serial Number Unit Name
533400-001 HVAC2
533400-002 HVAC1
533400-004 HVAC3
533400-003 HVAC4
533400-006 HVAC5
533400-005 HVAC6
Any major problems after hours should be reported immediately to Public Safety at 2-7211.
Should you experience any problems with the units, please refer to the "CRAC/HVAC Problem Reporting" section below.
Temperature & Humidity

Each unit is equipped with a deluxe display & microprocessor that displays the current temperature, relative humidity, & unit status (e.g., cooling, heating, humidifying, dehumidifying, or an alarm state). The current settings for temperature & humidity are 69 degrees & 45% RH, respectively. These settings should not be changed. Doing so will result in one of the other units working harder to make up the difference.
Issues with Cooling/Power

If an air conditioning problem is suspected, be aware of the polar booths. Polar booths are located in front of some of the higher-density racks and direct cold air from under the floor into the rack. This works well when there is positive air pressure coming from under the floor and the air is cold. Where there is no normal positive air pressure coming from under the floor, the booths restrict airflow into the rack and should be removed from the front of the rack. Airflow can occur when power to the CRACs is lost or when the CRACs are down for maintenance. Generally, only one CRAC is offline at a time, but even with one CRAC down (#5 &#6), there is an impact on these racks. Just to be safe, if an air conditioning problem is suspected, remove the polar booths -- currently, there are 2 in use at locations 4Z and 4FF.
Power-on/Power-off
To start or stop a unit, press the blue On/Off button under the display. DO NOT use the ON/OFF switch on the upper left front of the unit unless it's an emergency.
Emergency Power Off (EPO)

In the event of a fire or another situation requiring you to quickly shut down all units, use any of the red/yellow buttons on the walls in the machine room. There are three, one outside the Machine Room Office (H004) and one to the right of either of the main entrances to the machine room. NOTE: These buttons will bring down the entire room - they remove power to both the HVACs and the room's Power Distribution Units (PDUs).
Power-on After An Emergency Power Off
Go to each unit and place the On/Off switch located on the front upper left in the OFF position.
Inspect each EPO button. If you note one pushed in, pull it out.
Go to the air conditioning panel box located to the left of room 10 (the old IO counter). Open the door. There is a large breaker (500 amp) at the bottom. Reset the breaker by pressing the handle down as far as it will go, then back up to the ON position.
Go around to each unit, placing the On/Off switch located on the front upper left in the ON position & press the blue On button below the display.
Monitoring

90% of the water supply lines have been moved out from under the floor and placed above the ceiling, so it should be fairly easy to spot a leak. There is, however, a small amount of pipe still under the floor on the left side of each unit that could leak. Gone undetected, this can still cause us problems. It needs to be checked during routine console checks.

If you find a unit has a substantial leak (flooding the floor under the tiles), contact a Supervisor immediately. You may be requested to shut the unit down by pressing the blue on/off button on the control panel and close the YELLOW supply & return valves located on the wall behind the leaking unit. Do this by rotating the yellow handle clockwise 90 degrees (or 3 o'clock). You may then be asked to contact Facilities.

NOTE: If attempting to clean a leak, verify that the Vacuum is labeled as the Wet Vac. If you cannot find the Wet Vac, notify a supervisor before attempting to clean the leak.
Systems Overview

The HVAC system for the computer room utilizes freon-based air conditioners. Like those in your home, these systems require a means to dissipate the heat generated during the cooling process of freon-based systems. In an in-home system, the condenser is placed outside the house & a fan cools the freon, changing it back to a liquid. To make a long story short, we can't do this, so we need another way to dissipate the heat generated. We do this by using condenser water. Cool water from the towers enters each unit, which is equipped with a heat exchanger. Cool water enters the heat exchanger, cooling the freon as warm/hot water exits. The warm water is cooled by the small cooling towers outside. If an HVAC reports "High Head pressure", it's a good indication of a condenser water flow issue to the unit. If ALL units report "High Head pressure", there is a water flow issue with one of the two water loops. Check tower water levels; pumps in mechanical rooms - there should be one pump running for each loop. Pumps are located in H033 for the open loop and H049 for the closed loop. The Leibert units can run with up to 110 degrees F condenser water without losing any cooling capacity.
NOTE: This system utilizes condenser water. Not to be confused with "chilled" water.
Contact your Supervisor if you have questions regarding the procedures below.
CRAC/HVAC Problem Reporting
Non-emergency issues
Non-critical air conditioner issues (such as noises, minor leaks, or warning alarms) should be reported via email to operator@oit.rutgers.edu and ei_dcts@email.rutgers.edu, including details of the situation. A Supervisor and/or John Lyons will determine whether a service call should be placed to facilities. Should a situation arise outside normal business hours (late nights/weekends) and you are unsure of the proper course of action, please contact your Supervisor for direction. Make sure to monitor the situation carefully, as it may escalate into an emergency.
If there's a temperature fluctuation of 5 degrees at the thermostat near PDU3, please treat it as a non-emergency issue. However, please check the status of the CRAC units to be safe. Please also follow the instructions in the first bullet point above: email operator@oit.rutgers.edu and ei_dcts@email.rutgers.edu to inform them of the situation. If outside of normal business hours and you are unsure of a proper course of action, please contact your Supervisor for direction. Make sure to monitor the situation carefully, as it may escalate into an emergency.
The degradation or loss of a single CRAC/HVAC unit in the Machine Room may not constitute an immediate emergency. This would be a failure local to the unit a failed compressor circuit, a blown fuse, etc. A failure of units 2, 3, or 4 is currently less problematic than that of units 6, 5 & 1 (in that order), given the potential heat loads in these areas. Moving the PDB equipment to a "hot pod" configuration shortly will improve this situation. A failure on a single CRAC unit should not create panic. Assess the situation as best you can and note the machine room temperature. Please also follow the instructions above in the first bullet point. Email operator@oit.rutgers.edu and ei_dcts@email.rutgers.edu to inform them of the situation. If outside of normal business hours and you are unsure of a proper course of action, please contact your Supervisor for direction. Make sure to monitor the situation carefully, as it may escalate into an emergency.
When we receive an auto-generated email from the HVAC units, the Application Support consultants on duty should go to the unit in question and conduct a physical inspection. Check the unit for leaks and any alarm conditions. You should then report your findings to operator@oit.rutgers.edu and ei_dcts@email.rutgers.edu.
Emergency Issues / AC Failures
The following scenarios will constitute a CRAC/HVAC EMERGENCY:
A significant and/or steady increase in temperature of the Machine Room.
Extreme flooding under the floor (unable to contain/control leak and/or flooding an area of 6+ floor tiles).
Loss of use/power to 2+ HVAC units at any given time.
Emergency issues require a call to Facilities, John Lyons, and/or RUPD. If it is business hours, speak to a supervisor. If it is after hours, call a supervisor, who will likely tell you to call RUPD, which can get in touch with the on-call Facilities people. Be sure to gather as much information as you can both before you make the call and when/if facilities personnel and/or RUPD arrive. Send mail to operator@oit.rutgers.edu and ei_dcts@email.rutgers.edu and cc all the people involved in the situation.

If *All* CRACs are in ala, follow the procedure below:

This scenario requires swift and immediate action. This indicates a problem with the water loop serving all the CRACs.

There is a loss of water flow in the loop due to: (most common)

Failed pump/motor
Low/lack of water makeup/ emptied tower
Leaking/broken pipe somewhere
Clogged strainer(s)
Clogged heat exchanger
The supply water is too warm due to (less common)

Restricted heat exchanger
Failing pump/motor
Blocked water flow in the tower(s)
After Standard Business Hours:
Contact RUPD immediately and request assistance from Facilities.
Contact John L, John W & then David until you get a hold of one of them on their cell phone numbers. Do not wait to move on to the next. If John Lyons doesn't answer, call John W immediately and so on. Stop the contact chain when you reach one of them unless they mention otherwise. Please also call a Manager. If you're unable to reach a Manager, proceed to call Ana.
After placing these calls, please try to keep line 2293 clear in case any of them are returning your call.
Continue to send mail to operator@oit.rutgers.edu and ei_dcts@email.rutgers.edu and cc all of the people involved in the situation.
During Standard Business Hours:
Attempt to locate John and/or John/David in their office.
If you're unable to locate them, call John's cell phone.
If no answer, call David at his office, then call again if he doesn't answer.
If you're unable to reach any of them, please notify a Full-Time Supervisor or Manager.
After placing these calls, please try to keep line 2293 clear in case any of them return your call.
Continue to send mail to operator@oit.rutgers.edu and ei_dcts@email.rutgers.edu and cc all of the people involved in the situation.
Fan Placement

Please follow the documentation in the Fan Placement KB in the data center when cooling issues arise. The placement guide should cover the three most common scenarios we have faced in the past:

Complete loss of cooling and airflow (CRAC blowers are off) as a result of a power failure.

Complete airflow for cooling: all CRACs are displaying high head pressure.

The loss of one or two CRACs of seven.

This list is by no means exhaustive. Please contact your Supervisor/Manager with questions or for further direction on CRAC/HVAC issues.

Fire Systems

Next to the UPS alarm panel is the machine room sprinkler alarm panel. This system is separate from the building alarm panel, which is located next to the loading dock door. Smoke detectors and sprinklers are located on the ceiling and under the floor of the machine room and are all tied to a CO2 suppression system. This panel is not to be reset or touched at any time. In the event of a fire, emergency shutoffs have been placed at the main entrances. There is a fire extinguisher at the end of the machine room, opposite the Application Support office.

Cage (COLO)

A fenced, locked area of the machine room is available for organizations and departments that wish to house equipment in a controlled environment. After hours, they are not primarily responsible for the equipment. After hours, have access to the area for monitoring the HVAC in the cage.

Rear door heat exchangers (RDHXs)

Here's what the colors mean:

Blue - Normal operation
Red - Alarm detected
Data Center Event Notification Procedure

Customers who reside in the machine room can opt in to receive a phone call from After Hours when a critical environmental issue has happened in the machine room. In general, email will first be sent to hill_dc@email.rutgers.edu to notify the list's subscribers about the event. After that is sent, After Hours will make calls to customers who opted in for this service. The full details of the procedure have not yet been finalized, but for now,w you will only make these calls when given authorization from Full Time staff.

Rounds

Environmental checks are included during your normal rounds. An email regarding non-emergency environmental issues should be directed to operator@oit.rutgers.edu and ei_dcts@email.rutgers.edu.

To perform an Environment Check, please walk through the Machine Room, paying particular attention to the following:

A/C Units

Note the current temperature and any messages displayed on the LCD screen.n
Look under the surrounding floorboards to ensure no current water leaks.

PDU Units

Check for error codes/messages and/or alarms

System Racks

The systems on the racks have several checks to ensure their health.

LED lights
LCD screens
Disk Drives These tend to start making strange noises as a first sign of trouble.

Machine Room Thermostat the room thermostat is located behind PDU #3. Record temperatures during each environmental check.

Any fluctuation greater than +3 degrees may warrant some babysitting.
Any fluctuation greater than 10 degrees within a shift requires an immediate phone call to your Supervisor.

Strange Odors

With the amount of electrical equipment in the room, it is not surprising that we occasionally detect a faint scent of something burning. Nevertheless, when noticed, it is imperative that you immediately attempt to track down the source or narrow down the vicinity. It should be reported immediately.
A strong burning smell should be reported to RUPD immediately.
At the sighting of an open flame and/or smoke, activate the EPO and dial 911 immediately.
Facilities

Facilities is After Hours' first point of contact for any environmental issues that may arise within the machine room. This includes issues with air conditioners, power, water, and electricity. Notice that the proper contact numbers change depending on whether it is currently off-hours or business hours. In the event of an emergency, please follow the appropriate numbers.

If asked for a building number, the Hill Center's building # is 3752.

Business Hours Contacts

Monday - Friday 0800-1700
Facilities Main Line................................848-445-1234

Off Hours Contacts

Monday - Friday 1630-0800 AND Weekends
RUPD................................................732-932-7211

RUPD will then contact facilities
Fire Alarm Procedures

Building fire alarms: - Building alarms are located in the hallways and the data center. These are the large red strobes (and bells in the data center). These alarms are tied into the panels in the Fire Command Center, located to the left of the 5th-floor elevators. This alarm panel is tied directly to the Rutgers Fire Department and will notify them in the event of a problem. A remote panel is located at the loading dock entrance to help emergency personnel quickly identify the alarm's location in the building.

Emergency Power Off (EPO) - These are located within the machine room, next to the Operations door, and both main entrances. They are red with yellow plastic around them. Properly labeled as "Liebert Emergency Shutoff". They will immediately shut down all HVAC units and PDUs within the Machine Room by tripping the main breaker. Once pushed, you cannot quickly restore HVAC service, as facilities will need to reset the breaker. FOR THIS REASON, these buttons will only be pushed if you actually *see* a fire or visible smoke, after which you should call 911 immediately.

FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH THESE PROCEDURES, AS YOU WILL NOT BE ABLE TO REFERENCE THE WIKI IF THESE EVENTS OCCUR

Building fire alarms:

Secure door to Machine Room Office
Exit the computer room via the nearest exit, securing all doors behind you
Contact RUPD (2-7211) from the loading dock phone or your cell phone

C02 System dump:

Secure door to the operations consultant's office
Exit the machine room via the nearest exit, securing all doors behind you
Contact RUPD (2-7211) from the loading dock phone or your cell phone

In every situation, you are to EVACUATE the building IMMEDIATELY!

Sprinkler System:

The sprinkler system installed in the Hill Center is a two-stage dry system (unlike the rest of the building, which is always filled with water). During the first stage, the pipes above the ceiling become flooded with water. The second stage involves a component in the sprinkler heads that melts at a certain temperature. When the component melts, the water is then released.

The sprinkler system is activated when one or more smoke detectors in the computer room detect smoke. These detectors are mounted in the ceiling and contain a red LED. The LED will light if smoke is detected in that area. When a ceiling smoke detector detects smoke, the system floods with water. This activates the alarm above the panel in the DC as well as the building alarms (notifying RUPD).

" KB0014874 IT Help Desk - Application Support Newark - After Hours Support - Departmental Services "

Departmental Services is a division of Newark OIT that provides services such as Computer Installation & Repair, Server Installation & Repair, Cabling, and Desktop Support. DS is contacted by departments on campus for their service. The Help Desk will assist on tier 1 calls for departmental services. Any issues that need to be escalated should be assigned to the RUN HD - Triage assignment group.

" KB0014959 IT Help Desk - Application Support Newark - After Hours Support - EMS After Hours "

Rutgers University-Newark EMS Campus-Wide Support Workflow

Event Management System (EMS) is RU-N s tool for providing a single reference point for academic room assignments and scheduled events. RU faculty and staff, RBS students, and external organizations use the system to submit requests for classrooms, study space, conference rooms, etc.

This process outlines the workflow for potential issues and requests related to EMS.

Web Application

Potential Caller Demographic: Rutgers Faculty, Rutgers Staff, RBS Students, External Organizations/Groups

Authentication Issues: Help Desk to confirm whether the caller is an internal or external user

If internal: confirm that the caller entered the proper NetID credentials
If the Caller does not have these credentials, the normal process should be followed for them to obtain them.
If external: forward request to the After Hours support queues to create an account or password reset.

If there is a global issue with login (reported by more than x number of people within x time period), the Help Desk will contact the EMS Admins (nwk_emsadmin@email.rutgers.edu).

" KB0015409 IT Help Desk - Application Support NOC/After Hours Room Operations Procedures "

Map of NOC/After-hours room

Stations

There are four stations available to After-Hours Staff. They are 1504, 1503, 1502 and 1501. You can log into these machines using your Rutgers NetID and password.

NOC Supervisor Station

The NOC supervisor station is authorized by NOC personnel only and should not be used.

VCC Display

A Five9 Dashboard (login.five9.com) is displayed on the Sony display. The login credentials are usually saved in the browser. The dashboard may freeze, so you can log out and log back in.
Username: hd_app@oit.rutgers.edu
Password: V0lleyball!

Status Display

Using the Sony remote control, press the input button and select HDMI. This should bring up the Status Dashboard for Service Now. If you need to log in you can use the wireless keyboard behind station 1503. The power button is on the back of the devices. Please make sure you turn it off after you are done.

Wireless Headsets

Wireless headsets are available at each of the three stations. These headsets connect to both the phones and the PC s. Documentation on using these devices can be found at: Cisco Headset 500 Series User Guide.

Emergency phone

The After-hours office is equipped with an iPhone. This phone is to be used for the purpose of immediate and/or emergency communications, or when communications are necessary from within the data center. This phone is expected to be answered as calls are received.

Number: 732-208-9273
Passcode: Pr0menade
Voicemail passcode: 9611

Contacts on the phone have been supplied and include the following:
Help Desk Main Number
RUPD
On-Call List

This number will bring you to the auto-dialer for the full-time and managers who are currently on call. Please read the full KA on how to use the on-call list.
Student Help Desk Management

Individual members of management have been added to the phone. The on-call list should be the first method used to contact a manager unless the on-call system is non-operational, or you are directed to contact a specific manager directly.
Expectations:
The phone should be stored in the front cubicle behind the monitor.
The phone should be charged as needed.
Confirm the location and charge status of the iPhone during shift start and end.
A lanyard has been supplied with the phone and is expected to be worn by consultants:

During rounds in the machine room
Emergency situations forcing an evacuation
While working alone
Any issues experienced with the iPhone should be reported to esd_nb_ft_sups@oit.rutgers.edu and hd_mgr@oit.rutgers.edu immediately.
Usage:
The management team will use this phone as primary direct contact with the AH team during times of emergency; when call loads prohibit direct contact through normal means, and as necessary to reach AH staff.
The phone is expected to be answered at all times.
Missed calls/voicemail is expected to be handled immediately, when applicable.
The phone should not be used for outbound calls if/when VCC is available for use.
Consultants may use the phone for calls to their co-workers in the office, when performing rounds or outside the office, and in immediate need of relaying information.
iPhone can be used for troubleshooting.
This phone is not for personal use.

" KB0014957 IT Help Desk - Application Support OIT Tools - Zed Portal / SC-Apps "

If there are any problems or issues with the Zed portal:

Send mail to zed_admin@oit.rutgers.edu and CC sc_supervisors@oit.rutgers.edu, hd_mgr@oit.rutgers.edu and operator@oit.rutgers.edu.
Call/notify the on-call manager if not called already.
Follow the appropriate contact chain below.

If there are any problems or issues with SC-Apps (ACE, PTS):

Email esd_dev@oit.rutgers.edu.
Email hosting@oit.rutgers.edu.
CC sc_supervisors@oit.rutgers.edu, hd_mgr@oit.rutgers.edu, and operator@oit.rutgers.edu.
Call/notify the on-call manager if not called already.
Follow the appropriate contact chain below.

For testing issues/correspondence, send mail to zed_testing@oit.rutgers.edu.

During Business Hours (M-F, 9-5):

Call Anton Sarukhanov's office number: 848-445-6979

Confirm with Anton if escalation to Paul Framhein is needed.
Only if yes, then call Paul at 304-825-3245 (Use the HD phones to call Paul).
If you cannot reach Anton at his office, call his cell: 551-998-2891.
If you cannot reach Anton use the FT On Call list to reach a Manager.

Outside Business Hours:

Wait 10 minutes for a response to the e-mail from zed_admin.
If no response, call Anton's cell: 551-998-2891.
If you can't reach Anton, use the FT On Call list to reach a Manager.
Confirm with a Manager if escalation to Paul is needed.

Only if yes, then call Paul at 304-825-3245 (Use the HD phones to call Paul).

" KB0014884 IT Help Desk - Application Support PaperCut Servers and Services Transition to Icinga "

PaperCut servers and services will be moving over from Nagios to Icinga. Application Support will now be responsible for monitoring these devices on Icinga using the information below.

How to access Icinga
Go to the Icinga Website
Log in using your assigned credentials.
How to view PaperCut Hosts
Go to Problems > Service Grid
Set Problems Only to off to view all of the services.
Use the red filter icon next to the search field as seen below to show only the members of the Papercut host group.
Select Hostgroup Name
Enter in Papercut (case sensitive).
If there is an option to Load More underneath the results, please do so to view the full list.
Papercut - Escalation Path

The Papercut Host group on Icinga has the following escalation path:

If a node is CRITICAL for a period of 15 minutes, the following procedures apply 24x7:

Create a ServiceNow ticket with the following values:

Caller: NB-HD Application Support
Business Service: Monitoring and Alert Management
Assignment Group: NB-HD
Assigned to: Your Name
Short-Description: Papercut Critical Node
Description: Enter the appropriate Node Information
Once ticket is saved, this will be your timeline record all events as work notes
Email papercut_support@oit.rutgers.edu from the Operator email as well as hd_mgr@oit.rutgers.edu and operator@oit.rutgers.edu
If no response after 15 minutes, follow the below:

Call Paul Klump

(908) 216-6044, if no answer leave message and proceed to (b)
Call Mike Depasquale

(848) 391-8585, if no answer leave message

**If no answer and you have left messages for Paul and Mike, call the FT on-call list for further assistance.

Papercut - Departmental Support

Departments using PaperCut for print management may need assistance with system-level issues. For these cases, follow the steps below:

Support Contact

Email: papercut_support@oit.rutgers.edu
Escalate system-level issues to the ESD - PaperCut Support Queue.

Client Issues

Avoid direct involvement in individual client configurations or refunds unless there is evidence of a widespread problem.
Department: RBS

Function: Student lab printing

Locations: 1 Washington and 100 Rockefeller

Escalation Path: Departmental IT Staff

Department: SAS

Function: Faculty/Staff printing

Locations: Everywhere

Escalation Path: Departmental IT Staff

Department: SC&I

Function: Student lab printing

Locations: School of Communication and Information Building

Escalation Path: Departmental IT Staff

Department: SMLR

Function: Student printing

Locations: Levin and Labor Education Center

Escalation Path: Departmental IT Staff

Department: Language Lab

Function: Student Printing

Locations: Language Institute Building and Ruth Adams Building

Escalation Path: Departmental IT Staff

Department: Computer Science

Function: Student Printing

Locations: Hill Center Second Floor

Escalation Path: Departmental IT Staff

Department: RU Libraries

Function: General Printing

Locations: All locations

Escalation Path: OIT Lab Staff

Department: Pharmacy

Function: Student Printing

Locations: TBD

Escalation Path: OIT Lab Staff

Any department interested in deploying PaperCut can contact us at papercut_support@oit.rutgers.edu. I ll work on building out a service landing page unless you think we should add content to https://oit-nb.rutgers.edu/service/printing to limit the number of sites for the same service.

" KB0014914 IT Help Desk - Application Support Parking Permits "

Parking Guidelines for Application Support Staff Lot 64

This article outlines the parking privileges and expectations for Application Support staff, including the use of Lot 64 on the Busch Campus.

General Parking Guidelines

Application Support staff may be eligible for a special parking pass to park in designated stalls in Lot 64 if they regularly work early-morning or late-evening shifts.

If you do not qualify for special parking, you are expected to park in the lot appropriate for your permit type:

Commuter lots for commuter permit holders
Student lots for student permit holders
Faculty/Staff lots for staff permit holders

If you believe you have an exceptional circumstance that requires parking in Lot 64 during your shift, speak directly with your management team.

Lot 64 Parking Rules (In Effect at All Times)
All University parking policies must be followed.
Do NOT park at the loading dock under any circumstances.
Pulling into the loading dock to sign in when late,d then moving your car is strictly forbidden.
Violations may lead to disciplinary actions.
Abuse of parking privileges can result in revocation and/or further disciplinary action.
The four stalls in Lot 64 are reserved for Application Support staff only.
To report unauthorized vehicles in these stalls during off-hours, call Parking Services at 848-445-2978.
Additional Parking Privileges

Some Application Support consultants may be granted additional parking privileges through management.

Conditions for Additional Parking Access
Privileges are only valid after you file the required paperwork with the Parking Department (parktran).
Tickets issued before your paperwork is submitted are your responsibility.
These privileges only apply while working for Application Support.
They are not valid while attending class.
If you have class before or after your shift, you must move your vehicle to a valid student lot before or after work hours.
Parking in Lot 64 is only allowed while actively working for Application Support.
Parking Citation Appeal Process

If you receive a citation while working a scheduled shift, copy the form below, fill in the required information, and email it to hd_mgr@oit.rutgers.edu to request an appeal:

Subject: Request to Revoke Parking Citation

Request to revoke parking citation for <Full Name>

License plate #: <Your Plate Number>
Citation #: <Citation Number>
Date & Time of citation: <MM/DD/YYYY HH: MM>
Lot & Campus: Reserved Stalls in Lot 64, Busch Campus

<Name> confirms they were not attending class when this citation was issued.
<Name> also confirms that they filed the additional parking paperwork with the Parking Department before receiving this citation.

Reminders
Only use the Application Support stalls when actively on duty.
Ensure your car is moved before or after your shift to avoid violations.
Contact your manager if you're unsure about your eligibility or parking status.

" KB0014879 IT Help Desk - Application Support Rutgers Services - DUO Reporting "

If there are noticed issues with DUO such as inability to login, delayed push/passcode, or anything of that nature, please do the following:

Check Duo's status page to see if Duo is reporting any issues
Narrow down the issue and attempt to replicate it. Is it passcode problems only? Push notifications only? Browser related? etc
If the issue is clearly present, post in the outage channel that DUO issues are present and being investigated.
Contact FT for further instructions to begin escalating to IDM.

As always, keep a timeline. Update any party you contact once you receive further information/when the issue is resolved. Be sure to always follow up in the Outage channel as well.

" KB0014917 IT Help Desk - Application Support Security Operations Center (SOC) and RU CIRT Esclataions "

Security Operations Center (SOC)


The SOC's mission is to maintain a secure information environment at the University. Critical areas include computing incident response, regulatory compliance, information assurance, and overall best practices for secure computing.

Rutgers University Computing Incident Response Team (RU CIRT)

The Rutgers University Computing Incident Response Team (RU CIRT) is a part of SOC and handles computer security complaints, such as spam, Denial of Service (dos) Attacks, and abuse of email. Email complaints are generally directed to abuse@rutgers.edu.

More information can be found at the RUSecure website

SOC and After Hours

After Hours serves this division as an Emergency Contact, generally during off-business hours. Consultants will contact SOC and/or RU CIRT, as requested, to pass along information. RU CIRT handles computer security complaints, such as spam and abuse email.

Reasons After Hours would contact SOC and/or RU CIRT

Directed by law enforcement officers
Issues involving safety
Issues that impact the operations of RUNet (TD informs Apps of the incident)
Issues that impact the Internet as a whole (TD informs Apps of the incident)
Issues that put the University in a negative light or publicity that would be an embarrassment to the University
Escalation Procedure

After Hours may get calls from other departments looking to speak with RU CIRT or SOC. For these inquiries please create an incident for EI - Security Operations Center and if necessary escalate to SOC@OIT.rutgers.edu

" KB0014882 IT Help Desk - Application Support TD - Voice Services "

For a VOIP/phone services outage/degradation, the Help Desk should use the following escalation protocol 24/7:

Send an email to outages_voip_cisco@oit.rutgers.edu and call 848-932-0099 immediately.

HD FT supervisor should be consulted via the on-call list if After-Hours staff is not sure whether escalation is warranted.

" KB0019779 IT Help Desk - Student Policies and Procedures - OIT NB Support - First level Support "

In addition to enterprise services, OIT NB Support (Help Desk and Labs) provides designated first-level support for several departments. This means that OIT has formally agreed to serve as the first point of contact for its users.

We currently support the following departments (click the links below to review the specific support nuances and processes for each group):

ITS

SoN

RWJMS

SDM


Identifying Supported Users in CAT

When looking up a user in the CAT tool, always check the org code section. If the user belongs to one of our supported departments, you will see a blue box denoting which area of NB support handles them.

If you see the blue box in CAT, DO NOT transfer the user or redirect them to another phone number or email. We are their designated support. If we cannot handle the user's questions at our level, you must route the incident through the established internal escalation paths for that specific department.



Intake Numbers and Emails

As enterprise support, we are the first line of support for most central services, even if those services advertise their own specific email addresses. The following email addresses automatically create ServiceNow incidents for our teams:



Email Address

	

Who handles it




help@oit.rutgers.edu

	

All NB Support




oit@oit.rutgers.edu

	

All NB Support




software@rutgers.edu

	

Fac/Staff Help Desk




communityid_help@email.rutgers.edu

	

All NB Support




oitpolicy@rutgers.edu

	

All NB Support




box-help@rutgers.edu

	

All NB Support




mailman_support@rutgers.edu

	

All NB Support




help@resnet.rutgers.edu

	

All NB Support




help@ruwireless.rutgers.edu

	

All NB Support




webex-help@oit.rutgers.edu

	

All NB Support




help@scarletmail.rutgers.edu

	

All NB Support




cio@rutgers.edu

	

Fac/Staff Help Desk




facstaffhelp@oit.rutgers.edu

	

Fac/Staff Help Desk




help@canvas.rutgers.edu

	

LMS Help Desk



The following phone numbers all route directly into our main phone menu and are answered by fellow OIT Help Desk staff (LMS Help Desk, Canvas Help Desk, Faculty/Staff Help Desk, Newark Help Desk, Camden Help Desk, NB Help Desk).





833-648-4357 - Toll Free Help




848-445-4357 - NB Help




732-743-3200 - RBHS Help




973-353-5083 - Newark




848-932-4357 - NB Help Alt




973-353-5086 - Newark Deskside Services




856-225-6274 Camden HD




732-235-3300 - RWJMS




973-972-8200 - RSDM




973-353-1713 Newark ATS




848-932-7248 - ITS




973-972-3609 - SON



" KB0015027 IT Service Delivery and Support IDM - Processing Guest Requests "

Guest Request System is an enterprise self-service tool that enables a guest to submit a request to obtain a digital identity at Rutgers University. The request will be submitted for approval to the appropriate sponsor. Once the request is approved, the departments' guest administrators process it, and the guest is notified with instructions on obtaining and activating their digital identifier called a NetID. *Do not claim a guest request if you are not processing it before you leave for the day. Once claimed, no one else can see it.*

The person's Guest NetID can be processed by doing the following:

Go to OR and log in
Under Process New Guest Requests click on Search Pending Requests
Click Find Requests

The OIT Help Desk can process RBHS requests. However, if the Department has any of the following listed, we DO NOT process them, as these departments have their own admins to process Guest requests:

CINJ
GSBS
NJMS
RWJMS (RWJ)
SDM (unless it is "SDM OIT Health", then Help Desk would process it)
SHP
SN
SPH
UBHC (UCHC)
The OIT Help Desk always processes Guest Requests for the department: "OIT - IT Health Sciences" regardless of Campus. (they get PHI=Y flag based on dept level)
Click on the Request ID to read any special notes
Verify the following:

Compare the Department listed on the Guest Request to the Department/School/Unit listed on the Sponsor's active role in OR (click on the sponsor's NetID in the guest request list to see their active roles). If they are not similar (does not have to be an identical match but should be close), continue the steps below, and at step 9, Deny the request with a comment that the departments must be the same.
If the Department listed on the request would be affiliated with RBHS (such as those listed in step 3), then the Campus listed on the Request must also be RBHS. If it is not, continue the steps below, and at step 9, Deny the request with a comment that the Campus must be RBHS.
Click Claim
Click Process
Click Add Person to search for the user
Look through the results pages that come up to see if the person is already in the system. Pay attention to the birthdate and SSN.

If the person is listed and does not have an active Guest role, click on Add Role.

When processing an RBHS guest request, you must provide a reason and select Other from the drop-down menu.
If the person is there and has a Guest role that lasts longer than the requested role and is not an RBHS Guest role, Deny the request.
If the person is there and has a Guest role that is shorter than the role being requested and the current role is not an RBHS Guest role, do the following:

Note the existing NetID
Go to http://registry.rutgers.edu and click on Update Person
Search by the NetID and click on the entry
Click on the Guest Role and update its end date to the day before the new request's start date. For example, if the new guest request begins on 1/15/2025 and the current guest role ends on 1/31/2025, change the current role's end date to 1/14/2025. This ensures that the new guest request can be added to the individual.
Go back through steps 6, 7, and 8 to approve the request
If the person is not listed, click on Add New person and role

When processing an RBHS guest request,, you must provide a reason and select Other from the drop-down.
For the OIT Help Desk, if an SSN was not provided, send the email below to the sponsor from accounts@oit.rutgers.edu.
If requested by your department, please keep track of how many Guest NetIDs you have done via the Guest NetID Tracker.

For instructions on reviewing or looking up the status of a request, please read: Early Employee and Guest NetIDs Requests Status article

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Subject: Guest NetID Request

Hello,

We have processed your Guest NetID request for [Name of Guest], netID [NetID of Guest].

Please note that since a government-issued SSN was not provided we have created a pseudo-SSN entry in our system.

Your guest will require this number which we are providing to you.

The number is: xxxxxxxxxx

Once the pseudo-SSN has been obtained, your guest can activate their NetID by going to:

netid.rutgers.edu

Once there, select NetID Activation from the links on the left.

Please contact OIT Help Desk at 848-445-HELP (4357) or email accounts@oit.rutgers.edu if you require additional information or assistance.

Thank you,
Office of Information Technology
Email Accounts Office
accounts@oit.rutgers.edu
Help Desk: 848-445-HELP

" KB0016782 ITS ITS - Computer Naming Formats "

All ITS machines should have a sticker on it with the computer name. Alternatively, you can walk the user through finding the computer name on Windows or Mac.

Desktops
NBITS prefixes are included in the Hostname for those migrated to the RAD domain.
If no prefix is included in the Hostname (or the prefix is ITS), it has not been migrated yet (is still on the Echo (ad-its) domain).
The format is [Prefix (NBITS, if there is one)][Building Abbr.][Room #][Computer #].
Ex. CASC303C3 is in the College Ave Student Center, Room 303, and is the 3rd PC;
When a PC is imaged (setup a new machine), it is logged and physically labeled on the PC with non-T object name.
For new devices, the letter T is added at the end of the computer name to denote that it is being tested/setup/configured so it does not conflict with the existing device currently installed at the user's desk.
When setting up/installing the PC (at the designated location/office), the field tech changes the name on PC from T object to non-T object. Example: "RFO121C1T" changes to "RFO121C1".
Laptops
The prefix changes depending on what image it uses.
The prefix ITS- indicates the old ITS autopilot image.
The prefix NBITS- indicates the new RAD image.

All laptops are named after the ticket number they are purchased from.

Macs
Macs follow similar naming rules.
iMacs follow the desktop rules, only they use M at the end instead of C. (ex. RFO102M1 vs RFO102C1 (now NBITSRFO102C1)).
Macbooks are always [prefixed with ITS] [ticket #] [machine #].
There are a few exceptions to this rule such as:
Signage
Labs
Kiosks

" KB0016326 ITS ITS - Computer Replacement "

Computer Upgrade Cycle

All of our machines are in a computer upgrade cycle. This ensures that our users computers are the latest available model and have the most up to date Operating System (OS) and software. Currently, ITS replaces staff computers on a 4-year cycle.

Full Time Staff Undergraduate Academic and Student Affairs (UAA/SA)
Computer is upgraded for each user who is a full-time staff member on a specified scheduled basis.
As of Jun 2023 Dell OptiPlex 7000s are the standard desktop model used.
As of Nov 2025 Dell Latitude 7440/3440s are still under warranty and are the current laptop models used.
Student Staff UAA/SA
Student PCs are recycled old staff PCs. Replacements occur on a first come, first serve basis and there may be a waiting list.
Current models used OptiPlex 7050s and OptiPlex 7060s. These usually have hard drives in them. Replace with 120GB SSD
OptiPlex 7050s will soon be included into the upgrade cycle.
There might still be a handful of older computers out there (9020s and 7040s).
If you have one or find someone who does, please let us know and we'll prepare a newer PC for upgrade.
Full Time Staff External Departments
These computers are not replaced until they are bought again by the department. We will usually notify the department of any computers that are due for upgrades.
External Departments: Honors College, Veterans Affairs, Occupational Health (this is a department under Student Health), ROTC and more
Replacement procedure for deploying new computer
Boot computer to BIOS Setup (F2)
Go to General, select System Information, tab to page, and scroll down to find the MAC address (listed as LOM MAC). Add the MAC address to the ticket.
Tab back to the Settings column, arrow down to System Configuration, Integrated NIC, Enable w/PXE should be selected.
Tab back to the Settings column and arrow down to Power Management.
AC Recovery should be set to Power On
Wake on LAN should be set to LAN with PXE Boot
Tab back to the Settings column and arrow up to Boot Sequence under General.
Disable Diskette Drive, USB Storage, and CD/DVD/CD-RW Drive.
Apply and Exit to save these settings.
Create a new ticket for Sys Admins with the Short Description set as Create "T" object. The following information should be included in the ticket:
Whether it's a new or reimaged computer
Computer Name with "T"
If the computer you re preparing is a replacement, the name you give to Sys Admin should have a T at the end.
There cannot be 2 computers with the same name.
Ex: You re replacing "GTV402C1". The name of the computer you re deploying should be named "GTV402C1T". Once the new computer is setup, the name will be changed to remove the "T". If the computer is a new installation, you do not need the "T".
Department
MAC address
Contact the user to inform them that a replacement computer is being set up.
Ask the user if they currently have any special software installed on their computer.
Get the user's phone number.
Change the phone number in the ticket to the user's phone number, if not already set.
After "T" Object has been created, set up a replacement computer on the service desk and boot to NIC (F12) to install Windows.
Map replacement computer to users c:\ on the old computer, to verify that the requested software existed on the computer that's being replaced.
If needed, list the verified special software on the ticket and assign to Sys Admins to have the needed software pushed out to the computer.
Leave the computer on and connect.
Verify that software has been installed. If it still needs software installed, contact Field Support for instructions.
When the replacement computer is ready, contact the user to schedule the install date and time.
Add install to ITS Calendar.

See a FT Supervisor if you are unsure of any step.

Common User FAQs
Do I need to contact my department head/supervisor when I m notified by ITS that my computer is scheduled to be replaced?

Yes. Once your computer replacement has been scheduled, please notify your department head / supervisor that the replacement will be taking place.

How long does a computer replacement generally take?

Computer replacements generally take 1-2 hours to complete. During this time, you will not have access to your computer as your old computer will be removed and your new computer will be setup, with a brief overview of your new computer provided. Note: To avoid any data loss, we recommend that you backup your data via OneDrive prior to replacement date.

Do I need to be present during my computer s replacement? If so, why?

Yes. You will need to make yourself available during the entire replacement time slot. Although every attempt will be made to limit your time involvement during the process, please plan on being available during the entire time slot. During the replacement, questions may arise as to where to place the new components, etc. Your availability will be needed to answer any such questions. In addition, we will also need you to be present in order for you to log into your new computer.

What additional information will I need to provide ITS regarding my current computer configuration?

ITS will need to be informed as to any specialized software that you need to be installed on your new computer (i.e.: Event Management software, SPSS, any previously-purchased software, etc.).

What if I currently have specialized equipment connected to my computer (i.e. ergonomic keyboard, trackball mouse, widescreen monitor, etc.)?

If you currently have any equipment that is not standard, you are free to keep this equipment after the replacement and use it; however, in the event that any of it stops working, you will be responsible for its replacement unless you request standard equipment from us.

How often does my computer get replaced?

Currently, ITS replaces staff computers on a 4-year cycle.

What happens to my old computer?

Your old computer will be returned to our office and the contents of its hard drive will be erased. Depending on its hardware level, the computer will be surplused or prepped to be re-utilized.

" KB0016693 ITS ITS - Escalation procedures "

Table of contents
Level 2 responsibilities
Accounts - ITS
Email
Hardware
Phones
Printers
Remote access
Shared Network Drives
Software
Escalation groups
ESD - ITS Field Support
ESD - ITS System Admins
ESD - ITS Development
ESD - ITS Web Design

When assisting ITS users, you should try to resolve their issues. You should be able to provide support for general Rutgers IT issues, which include but may not be limited to:

NetID password
Two-Step authentication with DUO
RUWireless/RUWireless Secure
Zoom/Webex
Email
Level 2 responsibilities

For ITS-specific issues, consult the ITS knowledge articles in ServiceNow for guidance. Work with Supervisors and Full Time to best handle these calls. The issues you should be able to provide support for are:

Accounts - ITS
Requesting new ITS user accounts
New User Orientation
Resetting passwords (follow article instructions)
Email
If they need access to shared email accounts, escalate to ESD - ITS System Admins
If new employees need their email migrated, escalate to ESD - ITS System Admins
Adding a shared email account in Outlook as an additional profile, when already granted access.
Adding shared email to Outlook (Not as a new Profile)
Hardware
For power issues, if troubleshooting doesn t work, escalate to Dispatch first.
If Dispatch is unable to resolve, then escalate to ESD - ITS Field Support.
If there's a Request for additional computers, always escalate to ESD - ITS Field Support.
If there's a Request for additional monitor, always escalate to ESD - ITS Field Support.
If there's a Request for additional or newer student computer, always escalate to ESD - ITS Field Support.
If there are Requests for Computer Peripherals, escalate to Dispatch for mice/keyboards.
For anything more, please escalate to ESD - ITS Field Support.
Computer replacements, escalate to ESD - ITS Field Support.
For moving computers, escalate to Dispatch first.
If Dispatch is unable to resolve or the request is for multiple computers to be moved, then escalate to ESD - ITS Field Support.
Phones
Voicemail issues or phone screen display changes (such as changing the name displayed on the phone)
Escalate to EI - Voice Services - Triage.
Power issues
If troubleshooting doesn t work, escalate to ESD - ITS Field Support.
Network issues
If troubleshooting doesn t work, can escalate to ESD - ITS System Admins or ESD - ITS Field Support.
Printers
Adding a network printer/copier
If troubleshooting doesn t work, escalate to Dispatch first.
If Dispatch is unable to resolve the issue, then escalate to ESD - ITS Field Support or ESD - ITS System Admins.
Troubleshooting checklist

Hardware
Drivers
If troubleshooting doesn t work, escalate to Dispatch first.
If Dispatch is unable to resolve the issue, then escalate to ESD - ITS Field Support.
Request to move printer
Request for a new printer, escalate to ESD - ITS Field Support.
Remote access
Granting remote access permissions to ITS Machines (we can do with admin credentials)
Setting up remote access and troubleshooting
Shared Network Drives
If they need access for the first time, escalate to ESD - ITS System Admins.
Determining the path of a shared drive
Troubleshooting/mapping drives
If troubleshooting doesn t work, escalate to ESD - ITS System Admins.
Restore deleted folders in a Shared Drive
If troubleshooting doesn t work, escalate to ESD - ITS System Admins.
Software
Installation
If troubleshooting doesn t work, escalate to ESD - ITS Field Support or ESD - ITS System Admins.
Bomgar assistance and entering Admin Credentials
Troubleshooting
Outlook
If troubleshooting doesn t work, escalate to ESD - ITS System Admins or ESD - ITS Field Support.
Zoom
Usually. installing or updating.
SPSS
If troubleshooting doesn t work, escalate to ESD - ITS System Admins.
Mail Merge
Oracle
If troubleshooting doesn t work, escalate to ESD - ITS System Admins.
Purchases
Guide them to the Software Portal for free software.
Escalate to ESD - ITS Field Support for software that requires a payment.
Escalation groups

Incidents may be reassigned to the groups below when necessary based on the type of issue. If are escalating an incident to any of the groups below, make sure the incident state is New.

ESD - ITS Field Support
When troubleshooting methods over the phone and in person with Dispatch have been exhausted.
Purchase requests
Ex. INC0867944 RE: Quote for 5 Dell Conference Monitors,
Ex. INC0803354 Tableau Desktop License Purchase)
Reimaging requests
Ex. INC0827294 Laptop to be wiped clean
Mass computer/device moves; Typically a whole office rather than a whole department
Migrations, specifically RAD migrations (from ECHO)
Environmental damage. Usually, floods or power surge issues/damage
Ex. INC0850145 CASC GSL Computers
Computer upgrades/swaps (or questions regarding this)
Ex. INC0767181 HC - PC desktop computers)
ITS - Computer replacement
KACE and imaging issues
ESD - ITS System Admins
Access requests
Access terminations
Ex. INC0838080 Access Termination
Ex. INC0851918 Shared Calendar
Departmental/group email access
Ex. INC0874288 Access to FIGS email account
Email domain changes/ email address migration
Ex. Changing from netid@ipo.rutgers.edu or netid@connect.rutgers.edu to netid@echo.rutgers.edu
Other departmental resources
Ex. INC0851937 Department Zoom Account Access
Ex. INC0826975 DRC Advancement Calendar
Ex. INC0794525 Student Affairs DocuSign Access Status - Jillian Lynch
Other network issues/requests
Ex. INC0798904 Computer move
Note: This was due to the fact that during the computer move, it was found that the DNS needed updating.
Port opening/closing requests
Ex. INC0856134 Request to Whitelist Data ports in BSC on 9/24
Ex. INC0553002 Opening Ports Wednesday 9/21 DSC
Shared drives access
Ex. INC0822687 Shared Drive Access for Valerie Giuliano
Software installations that can't be handled by Help Desk
i.e., ...blocked by your administrator or software that cannot be installed despite being logged/remoted in as admin
May mean that the application needs to be white-listed.
Ex. INC0856011 Scanner Driver Install
Account creation requests, if they go to our queue first rather than System Admins. [Deprecated]
Ex. INC0868252 ITS Accounts - ITS23
SharePoint access, changes/updates, issues [Deprecated]

Ex. INC0796680 Fw: SA SharePoint
Ex. INC0854367 SharePoint Update
Ex. INC0865675 RE: SharePoint email notifications
ESD - ITS Development
Anything that mentions the following:
Andy Mudrak or the ITS Development team
webapps.rutgers.edu/student-ods
SKIP (Disability Services Data System)
Ex. INC0869927 SKIP- Newark Exam Submissions
Custom applications and databases
ESD - ITS Web Design
Advanced issues regarding websites for ITS-supported departments
Typically in regards to functionality.
Website creations
Website revisions

Back to top

" KB0016305 ITS ITS - Importing bookmarks from different computers "

Please follow the steps below if a user needs bookmarks from another computer:

Go to File Explorer.
Connect to the department's network drive, typically in the form of \\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\<Department abbreviation>
Click Backups and navigate to the specific computer.
Go to Favorites.
Open the Show All Bookmarks menu on the specific browser.
Drag and drop the files in the Favorites folder into the browser menu.

" KB0016370 ITS ITS - Installing a check scanner for business accounting "

To begin, the user will navigate to the Wells Fargo portal. Additionally, there is a backup link that users can use. For the backup link, they will select Sign On. User should have the sign on, as it should have been emailed to them before troubleshooting. Sign-on will be RUTGERS888 or something similar. Once the user is signed in, users will select Make a Deposit. On this page, the user can download the drivers, however, it is important to figure out which driver is needed for the user.

When going over installing a check scanner for a business account, it is important to note the following:

Bomgar will be necessary for these incidents.
You must be logged in as your admin account for this to install correctly.
Have the user scan a voided check to ensure their driver is up to date and they are good to go.
There are tickets involving required updates for desktop deposit scanner drivers that can be referred to, to assist with the process if need be, as well as contact information for Wells Fargo IT personnel:
Ex. INC0632373 Desktop Deposit Scanner Driver Update
Ex. INC0641619 STEVEN Desktop Deposit Scanner Driver Update
Ex. INC0641760 Desktop Deposit Scanner Driver Update
Ex. INC0643389 Desktop Deposit Scanner Driver Update

" KB0016467 ITS ITS - Introduction - Overview and Supported Departments "

Information Technology Services (ITS) supports various departments within the New Brunswick Chancellor's office including email services, database management and development, web hosting, content management, collaboration services, file and print sharing, security and compliance, application development and deployment, technology consulting, IT procurement, identity and directory management, project management, workstation management, network management, security services and repair/maintenance services of various IT equipment. There are approximately 2000 users supported by ITS.

New Brunswick Information Technology Services (NB-ITS) Official Site

List of ITS Departments
Academic Scheduling and Instructional Space
Air Force ROTC
Aresty Research Center
Army ROTC
Budget Office
Busch Livingston Health Center
Byrne First-Year Seminars
Campus Involvement
Cap & Skull
Career Exploration and Success
Collaborative Center
Cook Douglass Health Center
Counseling, Alcohol and Other Drug Assistance Program & Psychiatric Services (CAPS)
Digital Classroom Services
Douglass Programs
Douglass Residential College
Educational Equity and Excellence Collaborative
Fraternity and Sorority Affairs
Honors College
Hurtado Health Center
Learning Centers
Navy ROTC
New Brunswick Business and Admin Services
New Brunswick Campus Information Services
Office of Community Affairs
Office of Disability Services
Office of Graduate Student External Grants and Fellowships
Office of the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs
Office of the Ombudsperson for Students
Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Affairs
Office of the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education
Office of Transfer and Non-Traditional Students
Pre-College Outreach
R-Comm
Research and Assessment
Residence Life
Rutgers Student Health
School of Graduate Studies
Student Affairs - Asian American Cultural Center
Student Affairs - Business Office
Student Affairs - Center for Latino Arts and Culture
Student Affairs - Office of Student Conduct
Student Affairs - Office of the Vice Chancellor
Student Affairs - Offices of the Dean of students
Student Affairs - Parent and Family Office
Student Affairs - Paul Robeson Cultural Center
Student Affairs - Recreation
Student Affairs - Student Legal Services
Student Affairs - The Center for Social Justice Education and LGBT Communities
Student Affairs - Violence Prevention and Victim Assistance
Student Affairs Business Office
Student Affairs Compliance & Title IX
Student Centers and Activities
Student Centers and Activities - Meetings and Conferences
Student Orientation and Transition Programs
The Collaborative Center for Community Engagement
The Miller Center on Policing and Community Resilience
TRiO Programs - McNair Scholars Program
TRiO Programs - Student Support Services
Tyler Clementi Center for Diversity Education and Bias Prevention
Vice Chancellor, Division of Diversity, Inclusion, and Community Engagement (DICE)
Zimmerli Art Museum
Email Domains
echo.rutgers.edu
afrotc.rutgers.edu
armyrotc.rutgers.edu
nrotc.rutgers.edu
cop.rutgers.edu
zimmerli.rutgers.edu
odi.rutgers.edu
Support Tools
Kace
Bomgar
NBITS Share Drive
Admin Password list
New User Orientation Guide
Common ITS Incidents
Access to shared drives, departmental calendars, email accounts or other departmental resources, etc.
Mapping (ITS-issued/managed) computer/laptops to department share drives
Remote Desktop assistance
Cisco AnyConnect VPN assistance
Network connectivity requests/issues
Printer connection or driver assistance/issues
Installing/updating/troubleshooting software
ITS-issued/managed computer/laptop/device running slow (sometimes user might be due for upgraded/updated workstation)
Computer/printer/device moves
Hardware/purchase requests (from supported departments)
Port-opening/security/activation/reactivation requests
ITS Related Issues

Besides the supported departments mentioned above (which is the main way to tell whether a call is for ITS or not), other things may indicate that a call, e-mail, or ticket needs to go to ITS such as:

Anything addressed to ITS personnel, such as Andy Mudrak, Randy Lemence, Sabir Ahmedi, Ricardo Reis, Jeffrey Van Newkirk, etc.
Requests for access/permissions (from someone in ITS-supported departments).
Issues with ITS-issued/managed computers or laptops (Typically indicated by Hostnames starting with ITS/NBT/NBITS).
Installing or troubleshooting software (especially requiring administrative permissions) on ITS-issued/managed computers or laptops.
Requests to purchase hardware or software (from members of the supported departments).
Remote access requests/issues for ITS-issued/managed computers or laptops.
Whether the specific service the user needs assistance with is enterprise or local.
Escalating Incidents

Follow the procedures listed in the ITS - Escalation Procedures KA.

Contact Information
Address:	RUNet Field Offices
63 Road 1
Edison, NJ 08817
Phone Number:	(848) 932-7248
Email:	
its@echo.rutgers.edu
Website:	https://its.rutgers.edu/





" KB0016490 ITS ITS - KACE - How to Lookup Devices "

Kace (also known as kbox) has a database of desktops, laptops, and other devices, among other things.

In this database is extensive information including, but not limited to:

IP addresses
Who the device is assigned to
Hostname
Last user (displayed by NetID)
Date of last inventory (useful for determining if the device is possibly unreachable through network)
Amount of RAM
System model (ex. "OptiPlex 7090")
Operating system
How much space is available on the hard drive
Open Kace and log in:
Username: NetID
Password: NetID password
Organization: NBITS

When you click Login (if your login credentials were correct/accepted), it may appear like nothing is happening; it is logging you in though. To speed up the process, press F5 on your keyboard.
If you do not have the right permissions, you may not see a column on the left-hand side (and if you do, you may not see any other category than Home).
Kace may appear as though you don't have the right permissions if the url is entered as kbox3.rutgers.edu/userui instead of kbox3.rutgers.edu/adminui.
Below is an example of having the correct permissions:



Select Inventory > Devices.
Use the search box in the upper right hand corner to search for the device. You can search by:
IP Address
Hostname (the computer name)
Assignee name (can do a search by NetID)
Description (rarely used; need to know the description beforehand)
Select the device to see an overview of information, with more information listed below (with expandable sections):
Inventory Information
Software
Activities
Security
Dell Command | Monitor
Dell Updates
Logs and Diagnostics
Asset

" KB0016331 ITS ITS - KACE - Software Deployment "

Log into Kace.
Select Inventory > Devices.




Search for the computer you are trying to deploy software and click it to go to the device details of the machine.
Go to Activities > Labels to expand the menu.
Click Manage Associated Labels at the bottom of the label list.




Search for the software deployment label until you find the software you are trying to deploy. Drag the label from the left to the right within the dotted line box with the heading Assign Label.




Verify that the label you chose is showing up in the Assign Label column. Then click Ok. Click the Save button.
The software will now try to install the next time it checks into Kace. You can expedite this process by clicking Force Inventory.

These instructions will work as long as the software you are attempting to deploy has already been set up in Kace. If the software is not already in Kace, assign to ESD - ITS Field Support.



" KB0016746 ITS ITS - Mail Merge "

Purpose: Mail Merge is a handy feature that incorporates data from both Microsoft Word and Microsoft Excel and allows you to create multiple documents at once, such as letters, saving you the time and effort of retyping the same letter over and over.

Mail merge lets you create a batch of documents that are personalized for each recipient. For example, a form letter might be personalized to address each recipient by name. A data source, like a list, spreadsheet, or database, is associated with the document. Placeholders--called merge fields--tell Word where in the document to include information from the data source.

You work on the main document in Word, inserting merge fields for the personalized content you want to include. When the mail merge is complete, the merge document will generate a personalized version of itself for each name in the data source.

Setup access to a different email account through the Outlook Desktop app

Setup an alternate email address in Outlook (must be as a new profile) if the user wants to use that email to send from instead of their own.

How to complete a Mail Merge
Ensure the User/you are signed into the Outlook Desktop app under the desired source profile/email they want to send from.
Note: In the upper right-hand corner, you will still see your profile. That is because the Microsoft 365 Office license for using Word is on your account; this will not mean that your email will appear on the emails being sent via the Word Mail Merge as long as you selected the correct profile in Outlook (ex. "Oncampus").
In Word, go to Mailings. At the top to the right of File, Home, etc.
Select Start Mail Merge.
From the dropdown menu, Click Step-by-Step Mail Merge Wizard...
An internal window/menu will appear on the right-hand side of the screen. Select the desired document type.
There will be a description below the options for clarification; it changes based on the currently selected option.
Once a document type has been selected, click Next: Starting Document.
Under Select starting document, select the desired option and click Next: Select recipients.
Under Select Recipients choose the desired option depending on who the document is being sent to:

If Use existing list is chosen:
When you click Next: Write your e-mail message, In a new window you will be prompted to select an existing Excel file containing the recipient list.
If Select from Outlook contacts is selected:
When you click Next: Write your e-mail message, a small window will open prompting you to select a profile.
Click OK
A new window will open saying Select Contacts while showing the number of contacts and the location (the email address associated with the Outlook profile).
Click OK.
The small window will pop up again for you to select a profile.
Click OK and a window with Mail Merge Recipients at the top will appear.
Select the desired contacts and click OK.
If Type a new list is selected:
When you click "Next: Write your e-mail message", a window titled New Address List written at the top will appear.
Fill out the fields (Title, First Name, Last Name, etc. The most important being the email address (to be put in address line 1))
Click OK.
A new window will pop up asking where the new list should be saved. Enter a name, select the desired location, and then click Save.
A window titled Mail Merge Recipients appears showing the recipients. Click OK.
Click Next: Write your e-mail message.

It will tell you to write your e-mail/prepare your document/etc. if you have not already done so.
Click Next: Preview your e-mail message.
Here, you can see how the e-mail/document/etc. will appear to the recipient and also allows you to change/edit your recipient list or exclude a recipient on the right-hand side.
Click Next: Complete the merge.
It will now tell you Mail Merge is ready to produce your e-mail messages.
Under Mailings click Finish & Merge.
A drop-down menu will appear. Click Send Email Messages...
A small window will appear that titled Merge to E-mail. Select an option under To and in the Subject line put a subject and click OK.
Another window titled Check Names will appear. Find and select your recipient(s)
Click Ok.

With that, your emails are sent.

" KB0016479 ITS ITS - Naming Convention for ITS Machines "

Desktops
NBT or NBITS prefixes are included in the Hostname for those migrated to the RAD
domain.
If no prefix is included in the Hostname or the prefix is ITS, it has not been migrated yet (is still on the Echo (ad-its) domain).
There should be none left on the ad-its domain. If there is, notify Shanna Spurlock (ss4458) or other Full Time to contact ITS Field Support.
The format is Prefix (if there is one), building abbreviation, room number, computer number.
Ex. "NBITSCASC303C3" is in the College Ave Student Center, Room 303 and is the 3rd PC.
Laptops
The prefix changes depending on what image it uses:
The prefix ITS indicates the old ITS autopilot image.
There should be none left on the ad-its domain. If there is, notify Shanna Spurlock (ss4458) or other Full Time to contact ITS Field Support.
The prefix NBITS indicates it's on the RAD domain.
All laptops are named after the ticket number they are purchased from.
Macs
Macs follow similar naming rules

iMacs follow the desktop rules, only they use M at the end instead of C. (ex. "NBITSRFO102M1" vs "NBITSRFO102C1").
MacBooks are always prefixed with ITS ticket number, machine number.
There are a few exceptions to this rule such as:

Signage
Labs
Kiosks
When a PC is imaged, the student logs and physically labels the PC with a non-T suffix name (For example, "NBITSRFO121C1T" gets labeled as "NBITSRFO121C1").

When setting up/installing the PC (at the designated location/office), the field tech changes the name on PC itself from the T-suffix name to the non-T-suffix name.
Example: "NBITSRFO121C1T" changes to "NBITSRFO121C1".
Other special purpose machines
Otherwise, everyday computers usually follow this naming scheme.

Note: If there are any questions regarding the above, contact Shanna Spurlock (ss4458) or ITS Field Support.

" KB0016492 ITS ITS - New User Account/Reactivation "

Submitting a request (User's Supervisor/Manager)

Supervisors/managers for new users must submit a New User Account Creation form. They do this through the request form on the IT Help portal.

Go to the NB-ITS New Staff Onboarding form or you can navigate to the IT Help Portal > Request Service > search for "ITS".
From there, the requestor can fill out the form and submit it.
Receiving a request (ServiceNow)

Once the request is submitted, a few things happen in ServiceNow:

The form automatically generates a REQ (Request), which acts as a parent to the subsequent RITM.
The form automatically generates a RITM (Request Item), with the short description listed as the completed form name "NB-ITS New Staff Onboarding", and acts as a parent to any subsequent SCTASKS.
The form automatically generates 1 or 2 SCTASKs (Service Catalog Tasks), depending on the information in the request, under the RITM.
One of the SCTASKs will have the short description listed as "Account setup, service activations, and integration for User" and will be automatically assigned to the ESD - ITS System Admins queue.
If there is another SCTASK generated, it will have the short description listed as "Repurpose, reimage or purchase equipment for User" and will be automatically assigned to the ESD - ITS Field Support queue.
Processing a request (System Admins)

When the requestor submits the form, it automatically generates a SCTASK (Service Catalog Task) in the ESD - ITS System Admins assignment group s queue.

The System Administrator does the following:

They create a ticket from the SCTASK in their queue.
They check the NetID in CAT to make sure they have the correct delegated email address (may be connect.rutgers.edu at first) and licensing allocated.
If this was an internal transfer and user still retained their old email (ex. "ipo.rutgers.edu"), the corresponding delegated admin group assigned to the new user's previous department may have to be contacted to initiate the process for the release of the email to "connect.rutgers.edu".
They make sure the user has a mailbox and migrate the email account into the appropriate domain.
This may be "echo.rutgers.edu" or department specific (such as "zimmerli.rutgers.edu")
They copy the permissions (from the person that the requestor says to copy from), and grant access to any requested shared resources which may include:
Shared Drives
Departmental Calendars
Departmental Emails
Software accounts, which the System Administrators would also create if necessary.
Once the above tasks are complete, they may move the ticket to ESD - Information Technology Services (ITS) for a New User Orientation (NUO) to be conducted.
Processing a request (Field Support)

When the requestor submits the form, it may automatically generate a SCTASK (Service Catalog Task) in the ESD - ITS Field Support assignment group s queue.

Field Support does the following:

They check whether there's a device that needs repurposing/reimaging (usually, a computer that was previously used by someone else).
If there is, they acquire the computer, reimage it, deliver it to new user, and assist them with setting it up.
If not, they get a leased machine that fits the needs of the new user's role, they image it, deliver it to new user, and assist them with setting it up.
If the requestor needs to purchase any devices, Field Support will work with them throughout the purchasing process, image the device, deliver it to new user, and assist them with setting it up.
Processing a request (Consultants)
Once the ticket reaches the ESD - Information Technology Services (ITS) queue, the consultant will make an incident task for dispatch requesting a New User Orientation.
The consultant will reach out to the new user or the requester to get a direct contact number for the new user.
When the consultant gets in contact with the new user, they schedule a dispatch appointment for an in-person New User Orientation.
Conducting a New User Orientation (Consultants)

The goal in mind for conducting a New User Orientation is to help set up the new employee/user with everything they need to make their start as smooth and easy as possible.

The dispatch consultant should follow the checklist for the New User Orientation (NUO) with the user and answer any questions they may have.

Note: If anything is still pending, it should be noted in the work notes. Consultants are kindly reminded that tickets should not be resolved following a New User Orientation if something is still pending, such as the user s email being migrated from a different domain. After the New User Orientation is complete, and there's no other pending items to address, the incident can then be resolved.

" KB0016491 ITS ITS - New User Orientation "

Has the user been able to log in?
Make sure the new employee/user can log into the computer for the first time, if they have not already.
Outlook
Help them set up Outlook on the desktop application.
Help them get on Outlook through the website/inform them about connect.rutgers.edu
Activate Services

Direct them to https://netid.rutgers.edu/index.htm then click on Service Activation, to activate services (Rutgers Connect (Office 365), Webex, Box, Adobe, Rutgers ScarletApps/ScarletMail (Gmail), Zoom, Rutgers VPN).

Computer
Explain how to connect any peripherals (mice, keyboards, cameras, etc).
Setup their default programs.
Go to Control Panel > Default Programs > Set your default programs. In this window, you can set the default programs for things such as email and web browser based on their preferences.
To set defaults for things such as PDFs, the best way to do so is by file type. You can do this by going to Control Panel > Default Programs > Set your default programs > Choose default apps by file type > (find .pdf and click next to it to set the default program to Acrobat, Acrobat Pro, or Acrobat Pro DC)
The list might take a bit to load.
Under Name (towards the top left-hand side of the window), you ll see file extensions listed, such as .386, .3fr, .3g2, etc. (common extensions include .jpeg, .bmp, .pdf, .html, etc.)
Set them up with Remote Desktop and VPN instructions if they need it (put a screenshot of device name and IP on the desktop).
Show users the Snipping Tool. This will help capture error messages when they want to talk to the Help Desk.
(For laptops) Install/set up RU Wireless Secure.
Explain they are not administrators on the computer, but we will help them out to get what they need.
If they ask why, it s because it's a security risk. If hackers get into an admin account, they could seriously harm our network and access sensitive information.
Ask if there is a printer they need to connect to; assist them with this.
Make user aware they should never shut down their computer, as we push updates at night and it's important that we keep their computers up to date with the latest security patches.
They can, however, restart their computers as needed and should do so periodically to prevent their computers from running slow.
Show them how to log off, lock, or restart the computer instead.
Software
Install any software they need/may need (ex. Cisco AnyConnect, Teams, Slack).
Explain that some software is provided by ITS through our group policy.
Show them the Software Portal (software.rutgers.edu) and explain that this is where they can download additional software.
Remember to inform them that some software may need to be purchased, in which case, they are advised to go through their department for approval.
Getting IT Help
Teach them how to contact and interact with the help desk.
Show them how they can submit tickets.
Point out the stickers on their monitor, the contact info, and the computer name.
If not done previously, show the new employee/user the Snipping Tool and explain that this will help capture error messages and other details when they want to submit a ticket to the Help Desk.
Explain that they need to save any snips/screenshots and attach the images to the incident.
Offer to show them how to do this.
Remind them to always try to reboot first when they run into an issue, then call us for additional support. Rebooting their computer can fix many issues, especially if they haven't restarted their computer in some time.
They can select restart on the computer if it s running slow or running into strange issues, but never select Shut Down due to the reasons mentioned in step 8 located above.
Inform them that it is best to call us if they have any issues; give them our phone number ((848) 932- 7248).
Inform the new employee/user that if they emailing, please include a call back number directly to them, include their department information, and their computer name (should be located on the top right side of their desktop). Request that they also put a direct callback number in their email signature.
Explain that for resetting voicemail pins, line transfers and other telephone services, they get more information and assistance at it.rutgers.edu/voice.
Ensure you have answered all their questions and that they don't need any additional assistance.

Note: If anything is still pending, it should be noted in the work notes. Consultants are kindly reminded that tickets should not be resolved following a New User Orientation if something is still pending, such as the user s email being migrated from a different domain. After the New User Orientation is complete, and there's no other pending items to address, the incident can then be resolved.

" KB0016272 ITS ITS - Outlook - 365 Shared Calendar Not Updating "

When an individual creates or edits a shared calendar entry in Outlook and "Download shared folders" is enabled in their mail account, Outlook may not upload changes to the?Office 365?cloud server. Thus, no other individuals will see those changes synchronized to their version of the shared calendar.

Disable "Download Shared Folders" on the advanced tab under "More Settings" in the change account window in outlook.

Go to File > account settings, and then account settings in the drop-down menu.
Select your mail account.
Click More Settings on the exchange account settings window.
Click the Advanced tab then disable Download shared folders by removing the check from the box.
Click Apply.
Click Okay.
Restart outlook.

" KB0016503 ITS ITS - Outlook - Add Shared Mailbox "

Table of contents
Open a shared mailbox in the Outlook (Classic) desktop app
Open a shared mailbox as a separate profile
Open a shared mailbox in the Outlook webapp
Open a shared mailbox in the Outlook (Classic) desktop app

This describes how to set up Outlook so that a user will be able to view their inbox and a departmental/shared inbox in the same Outlook profile rather than having to switch back and forth.

Verify the email address before proceeding (ex. its@rutgers.edu vs its@echo.rutgers.edu)
The email should be in the format of email@domain.rutgers,
Echo, connect, or oit are examples of email domains, as shown above with oncampus@echo.rutgers.edu.
In the Outlook desktop app, go to File > Add account and a smaller window will appear.
In the smaller window, where the Email address field is, enter the departmental/shared email.




Another small window (Rutgers sign-in page) will come up showing the email listed above the password field. Below the password field, select Sign in with another account.




Replace the auto-populated email with the user's email (netid@domain.rutgers.edu).




The window will go back to the Rutgers sign-in page. Have the user enter their NetID password and select Sign in.
Follow the verification prompt (for Duo) that comes up and then it will set up the departmental/shared email.
Once added, the small window will say "Account added successfully" and "You need to restart Outlook for these changes to take effect". Select Done.
Close and reopen Outlook. It should show the departmental/shared email, as demonstrated below.


Open a shared mailbox as a separate profile

This describes how to set up Outlook so that a user will be able to open a shared mailbox as a separate profile. This is normally used by those who want to send mail via Mail Merges from a shared/departmental mailbox.

Verify the email address before proceeding (ex. oncampus@rutgers.edu vs oncampus@echo.rutgers.edu)
The email should be in the format of email@domain.rutgers,
Echo, connect, or oit are examples of email domains, as shown above with Oncampus@echo.rutgers.edu.
Open Control Panel.
Select Mail
It may just say Mail, Mail (Microsoft Outlook) (32-bit), Mail (Microsoft Outlook), or Mail (32-bit).
You may have to select View by in the upper right-hand corner and select either Large Icons or Small Icons to see all options.




Select Show Profiles at the bottom of the small pop-up window.




Select Prompt for a profile to be used > Add...




Type a Profile Name.
This is so the user knows which one to select.
Ex. ITS
A new window will pop up. Under Email Accounts, there will be fields for Your Name and Email address.
Your name may be greyed out. If so ignore it.
Boxes titled Password and Retype Password may appear; leave them blank.
Under Email Address, enter the desired email account.
ex. its.rutgers.edu (It should be in the email@rutgers.edu format)




Click Next.
This should show a screen titled Configuring.
A new window will pop up titled Microsoft Sign In with the email already entered. Click Next.




The Rutgers Connect site should show. Under Password, select Sign in with another account.




It will direct you back to the Microsoft Sign-in page. Type in the user's email address and click Next.




Have the user type in their NetID password and select Sign in.
Have the user complete the desired Duo Authentication method.
The window should automatically close and go back to the Configuring screen but should say "Congratulations!" above it. Click Finish.
In the small Mail window, you should see the profile you set up. Click OK. The window will close.
Launch the Outlook Desktop App. It should show a small rectangle pop-up with Choose Profile in the top left corner. Choose the one you just made.
This will load that profile (this may take a few minutes depending on how much data there is to load).

To switch between profiles, Outlook needs to be closed and reopened.

Open a shared mailbox in the Outlook webapp
Verify the email address before proceeding (ex. oncampus@rutgers.edu vs oncampus@echo.rutgers.edu)
The email should be in the format of email@domain.rutgers,
Echo, connect, or oit are examples of email domains, as shown above with oncampus@echo.rutgers.edu.
Go to connect.rutgers.edu (or the user can go to outlook.com and sign in with their Rutgers credentials, which will redirect to the Rutgers sign-in page)
Once the user is signed in, locate their email on the left-side navigation bar (may show as their email alias) and right-click on it.
A mini-menu will come up. Select Add shared folder or mailbox.




The Settings menu in Outlook will come up, with a smaller window that says "Add a shared email account". Enter the departmental/shared email in the empty field and select Continue.
It should now say "Shared email account added" with the shared email listed below that.
It will also show simple instructions guiding the user where to go to see what they can access.

Note: In Settings > Account > Shared with me, it'll show a list of any shared email accounts that have been added with the instructions above. It will also show a drop-down arrow on the right side. When selecting that arrow, the box with the selected email will expand and show what the user is able to do with that email account, such as Can send email as this account.

Back to top

" KB0016329 ITS ITS - Outlook - Only Opens in Safe Mode "

This describes the procedures that one can take if they are only able to access Microsoft Outlook in safe mode.

Remedial Action 1

Try restarting the computer and launch Microsoft Outlook again.

Remedial Action 2

Disable Add-Ins:

Click on File > Options > Add-ins > Go to the right of Manage: COM Add-ins.
Check if there are add-ins listed, and clear the checkbox.
Close the Office program and restart it.
Enable each add-in one at a time, restart Outlook, and repeat the above procedure. If the issue reappears again, it will help you to determine which add-in is causing this issue.
Remedial Action 3

Remove/Re-add Outlook Profile:

Go to Control Panel > Mail.
Select Mail > Show Profiles and remove the one that's there.
Add a new profile and name it Outlook
Fill in the name and email fields; leave the password fields blank.
Select Next.
The CAS log-in screen will appear, where NetID and password can be entered.

" KB0016327 ITS ITS - Printer - Add a Network Printer/Copier "

This describes how to add an ITS copier and/or network printer.

Using the Start Menu search (Magnifying glass icon - lower left taskbar) type Control Panel.
In the Control Panel window select View Devices and Printers.
In the Devices and Printers window click on Add a printer.
Select The printer that I want isn't listed.
Choose: Add a printer using TCP/IP address or hostname, then click Next.
Under Hostname or IP address: Type in the IP address or the hostname (ex: RFO105ND1.its.rutgers.edu)
Click Next and follow the prompts on the screen.
How to find the IP Address / Hostname for an ITS Printer

ITS Printers should have a tag on them. An example tag is RICOHMPC4504EX-BSC106ND1

The bolded section is the hostname for that Printer. The full hostname would be BSC106ND1.its.rutgers.edu

Open Command Prompt: Press the "Windows Key + R", type "cmd" and press enter.

To find the IP address, ping the full hostname on the Command Prompt as shown below:

The IP address for RICOHMPC4504EX-BSC106ND1 would be 172.16.129.193

" KB0016308 ITS ITS - Printer - How to Deploy a Network Printer "

This article outlines the procedures on how to deploy a network printer.

You will need
Fluke
Ethernet cable
New printer
Label maker
Before you leave
Call up to network admins to see if they are in. You will need to call them when you are at the area to have them unlock the data port for the printer that will be plugged in.
Call user and find out which computers will need to have access to the printer.
Find out if there are any other printers in the room.
Once you're on site
Install the printer where the user would like it to be.
Be sure to remove all packaging materials from inside the printer trays, toner, etc.
Do not plug the network cable in yet.
Label the printer with the building name, room number, & the printer number i.e. (12MOR001P1)
Do not install any drivers as they will be deployed by active directory.
Call a network admin to unlock the data port.
Once the port has been unlocked, you may plug the network cable into the printer.
Wait 5 minutes and print out network config page. Update ticket # with MAC and IP and pass ticket to Network admins.

The remaining computers will obtain the drivers for the network printer once the group policy is updated on each of those computers. There are 2 ways to trigger a group policy update, one is by restarting the computer and the other is by running "gpupdate /force" at an elevated command prompt. If you choose to run the command, the user will need to log out and in for the change to take effect.

" KB0016320 ITS ITS - Printer - Issues Troubleshoot Checklist "

When you first get a call about a problem with printers, there are a few basic things you must check before you create a ticket and send someone out into the field. The following is a checklist of information you must get and things to try over the phone before doing anything else

Local Printers
Find out the model of the printer.
Find out the name of the printer (should be on a sticker).
Get the computer name the printer is connected to.
Make sure the printer is on and active.
Power cycle (turn off and on).
Make sure the connection between the computer and printer is not loose on either end.
Make sure the power cord is not loose.
Check to make sure the printer has paper and toner.
Check to make sure there are no paper jams.
Find out if the printer is showing up on the print menu as a printing option.
Ask about any messages the printer or computer may be displaying.
Replace ink/toner.
Verify the toner s protective strip is removed (plastic strip).
Verify the toner is genuine (aka not a third party vendor).
Network Printers
Find out the model of the printer.
Find out the printer name (should be on a sticker).
Find out the number of the port the printer is connected to.
Make sure the printer is on and active.
Power cycle (turn off and on).
Print a configuration page and give IP/MAC address to System Admin.
On the printer, set IPv4 configuration to Automatic or DHCP (automatic IP address configuration).
Ping the printer using command prompt to see if it is connected to the network.
Ping the computer using command prompt to make sure there are no connectivity problems.
Make sure correct drivers are installed and up to date.
Make sure the network cable is connected to the wall solidly.
Make sure the power cord is not loose.
Check to make sure the printer has paper and toner.
Check to make sure there are no paper jams.
Ask if anyone else connected to the printer network is having difficulty.
Find out if the printer is showing up on the print menu as a printing option.
Ask about any messages the printer or computer may be displaying.
On the printer, set IPv4 configuration to Automatic or DHCP (automatic IP address configuration).

If there is a connectivity problem where a network printer will not respond to pinging, ask the System Admins to check the port. Remote into the computer and check to make sure all drivers are properly installed.

" KB0016322 ITS ITS - Printer - Request to Move "

All large copiers must be moved by Material Services or the leasing company (whichever is more cost-effective). This applies to moves within the same building and floor. Moving copiers by non-authorized personnel may void warranties, as copier companies need to track their machines' locations.

Steps for a printer/copier move
Have department requesting move contact Material Services (or leasing company).
Get all information on the copier move date such as:
Current IP Address
Current Data Port
Destination Data Port
Date/times of moves
Schedule a dispatch appointment to be on site to rename/relabel and reconnect copier to network when it is going to be moved.
During the move
Provide System Admins with new copier IP/Data port information.
Verify IP is whitelisted for scan-to-email with a System Admin.
Verify that users can still print to the printer after it is moved.

" KB0016494 ITS ITS - Remote Desktop Granting User's Access "

Sometimes, users call because they cannot access Remote Desktop from their home computer or laptop after following the instructions on its.rutgers.edu. In addition, some users may request to remove certain people from accessing Remote Desktop on various computer. When performing this task, it is important to run Computer Management as Admin.

Open up the File Explorer.
Right click on This PC.




Click on Manage.
Click Action.
Click Connect to Another Computer.




Type in the computer name or click Browse to look up the computer name through Active Directory.




Click the triangle next to System Tools to show Local Users and Groups.




Click on the triangle next to Local Users and Groups.




Click on Groups.




Double click on Remote Desktop Users.




Click add and type in the user's name or NetID into the text box, then click Check Names.
(Note: It will either find the name/netid & email immediately or give suggestions (both instances displayed in the screenshot)).




Click Ok. You will see the view below.




Here, click Apply and then Ok.

" KB0016477 ITS ITS - Remote Desktop to Work Computer Setup "

Before starting, the user must have been granted access to remote into the computer. Ensure the user is set up with permission to remote into the specific computer by following the instructions on how to grant access to the remote desktop.

Steps to remoting in
Get the required computer information. This means the computer/device name (also called the hostname), the Full device name (which would include the domain (ex. RAD, ECHO, etc.), and/or the IP address (using the IP address to remote in tends to work more often than using the device name or the full device name.
The full device name will be in the format of computername.rad.rutgers.edu
To get the full device name, navigate to the Start menu > Settings > System > About and look under Device Specifications.
To get the IP address, navigate to the start menu > type CMD (the command prompt should come up) > type ipconfig or ipconfig/all.
The IPv4 Address is what is needed.
Start the VPN.
Navigate to the Start menu > open Cisco AnyConnect Secure Mobility Client (not to be confused with Cisco Secure Client).
A small box will pop up. In the empty field (under VPN: Ready to connect), type in vpn.rutgers.edu > select connect.
Another small box will pop up with Cisco AnyConnect | vpn.rutgers.edu at the top. It will have fields for Username, Password, and Duo Action.
For Username, this will be the user's NetID.
For Password, it will be the user's NetID password.
For Duo Action, this will either be push (for a push notification), or SMS (for passcodes to be texted). They ll need to check their phone for this part.
Select Ok and the user should get something on their phone.
For a push, hit accept (most people choose this; sometimes the user might have to open the DUO app itself if they don t see the notification).
If the user chooses passcodes, have the user enter the passcode when prompted.
On the computer screen, another small box will pop up saying "Please click Accept. You are receiving this notice because you are a member of the ESD Help Desk with additional departmental access. If you are not a member of this group, contact SOC@oit.rutgers.edu so your membership can be adjusted". Tell the user to click Accept.
Navigate the user to go to the Start menu and search for, and open Remote Desktop Connection.
In Remote Desktop Connection, in the empty field next to Computer, type either:
The device name (also called the hostname)
The full device name (which would include the domain (ex. "RAD").
Or, the IP address (for more information, refer back to step 1).
For User name, have the user type domain\NetID
For example, "RAD\ss4458" (for the RAD domain)
If the user needs to change the username and it appears that it can't be edited, they will need to select the dropdown arrow (that has Show Options next to it).
This will expand the small window and unlock the field for the username to be entered or changed.

Select Connect when done.
If it is successful in reaching the desired computer/device, it will open a window that says "Windows Security" at the top as well as "Enter your credentials" and "These credentials will be used to connect to [XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX] (if connected by IP), computer name (if connecting using the computer name), or computername.rad.rutgers.edu (if connecting using the full device name)".
Underneath that, the user should see their name (if a domain\NetID was entered) and an empty password field. Below that, the domain\NetID should appear if they entered it.
If the domain\NetID was not put in yet (before the "Windows Security" window popped up), then no name will show and there will be two empty fields rather than one (for NetID and their RAD account password).
If the domain, username, or both are listed but incorrect, they can change it by selecting More choices at the bottom of the box above Ok.
This will show one option as:
[First name & Last name] and/or [domain]\[NetID]
The second option will show as Use a different account.
Select this option and it will allow the user to enter new information as described in step 5.
Select Ok.
If successful, it will show the computer login screen and log them in.
If someone else is already using into the same computer, it will show the log in screen but will say the (remoting) user s name and then below it will say "Another user is signed in. If you continue, they ll be disconnected. Do you want to sign in anyway?".
Clicking Yes will force the person current logged in to log out and is not advised without notifying them first (if possible).
In general, it is recommended to remote into a different computer instead, if possible, to avoid any issues.
Sometimes, they might get a small pop-up box that says "The identity of the remote computer cannot be verified. Do you want to connect anyway?".
For this, verify the user typed the computer/device/hostname or full device name correctly under Certificate name and click Yes at the bottom of the box if it is correct. It should proceed with connecting and they should see the log in screen or the desktop.
Troubleshooting

If a small box pops up saying "Remote Desktop can t connect to the remote computer for one of these reasons":

"Remote access to the server is not enabled"
"The remote computer is turned off"
"The remote computer is not available on the network"
"Your computer cannot connect to another console session on the remote computer because you already have a console session in progress"

Double-check and ensure the following is true:

The computer they are attempting to remote into is turned on.
Connected to the network (including being signed into and connected to the Cisco AnyConnect VPN)
Remote access is enabled for the user.
To ensure the user has the access to remote in, you can remote in with your RAD Admin account or connect to the destination computer with another computer, using the instructions in the how to grant access to the remote desktop KA.
The user is not in another existing session. You can tell if the error message "Your computer cannot connect to another console session on the remote computer because you already have a console session in progress" comes up.
A consultant can kick the user off by signing in with their admin account and waiting 30 seconds. Then sign out and the user should be able to remote back in to the device.

Typically, some of the potential causes not already mentioned on the popup could be:

The name was mistyped.
The wrong domain was typed in sometime through the remoting process.
The IP address was incorrectly typed in.
There is an IP-hostname mismatch (which would mean that the DNS would need updating).
Let a staff member know if you run into this issue so we can assist in troubleshooting the issue; if the DNS needs updating, it d go through one of our System Administrators to be resolved.
They did not launch Cisco AnyConnect and the computer they re trying to remote into is on a different domain than the computer they re attempting to remote with.
For example, they re trying to remote into a work computer or any computer on the Rutgers network from home or anywhere outside the university.
Check the RD Gateway settings. (Sometimes the settings in the section are set incorrectly.)
This would be changed through the small box that pops up when the user first launches Remote Desktop Connection. Select the dropdown arrow that has Show Options next to it > Advanced > Under the Connect from Anywhere section, select Settings.... and a new small box will pop up.
Under Connection Settings, there will be 3 options:
Automatically detect RD Gateway server settings
Use these RD Gateway server settings:
Do not use an RD Gateway server
Select Automatically detect RD Gateway server settings or Do not use an RD Gateway server and click OK. Continue the process mentioned at the beginning of step 4.
If a small box pops up saying "The connection was denied because the user account is not authorized for the remote login", it is because they need to be added to the Remote Desktop Users group in Computer Management.
If a small box pops up saying, "The remote computer that you are trying to connect to requires Network Level Authentication (NLA), but your Windows domain controller cannot be contacted to perform NLA. If you are an administrator on the remote computer, you can disable NLA by using the options on the Remote tab of the System Properties dialog box", verify they have the right RD Gateway settings mentioned above and the right domain preceding their NetID (Example: RAD\netid)
The domain should be RAD\ due to everything being migrated from the ITS/Echo domain and the device name should reflect that. If you see this message and the computer starts with ITS or you're not sure the computer was migrated, you may refer to The Naming Convention for ITS Machines.
This message should not appear anymore. However, if it does and/or you come across a computer with a hostname that begins with ITS, annotate it in the ticket and contact Shanna or other Full Time staff. It may need to be moved to Field Support.

" KB0016346 ITS ITS - Request for Additional Computers "

Below are guidelines for when a user/department places a request for additional computers. Collect any required info noted below and incidents can be assigned to ESD - ITS Field Support.
Request for New Staff

If the computer requested will be utilized by a NEW full time staff member then they will be supplied with a new computer that ITS purchases.

We will need to know the full name and NetID of the newly hired staff member and also what building/room number the computer will be deployed to.

Request for Existing Staff

If the computer requested will be utilized by an EXISTING staff member (in addition to their regularly used computer) or a STUDENT staff member, then the user\department must wait until a used 'off-cycle' computer is available.

Note: If the department does not want to wait for a used 'off-cycle' computer to become available they may purchase a computer out of their funds through our office.

" KB0016312 ITS ITS - Request for Additional Monitor "

Second monitors needed to be purchased by the requesting department. ITS has a stock of used 22" square monitors that can be used for this purpose with no charge to departments. ITS is still only responsible for each computer having one monitor. In the event that the second monitor fails, IT Services will only be able to replace it if we have another used monitor available. If no monitors are available and the user's department wishes to purchase a new monitor, they will need to provide their account codes for the purchase.

Change Short Description to "Full-time staff members request for second monitor"
Collect any info on their current monitor setup, and whether they are fine with a 22" square monitor if available, or if they wish to purchase another one.
Escalate incident to ESD - ITS Field Support.
Second Monitor Deployments

All second monitors are to be labeled Second Monitor placed under the stand. This label should be installed before taking the monitor to the client. Only use 22" square monitors. Never use a new monitor. Never use a widescreen monitor.

User purchase of additional monitor

NB-ITS has partnered with SHI to provide direct access to pre-approved technology. This includes essential IT accessories such as keyboards, mice, webcams, and chargers; and may include monitors. This partnership aims to streamline the ordering process and enhance access to the needed tools. The custom catalog is available directly through RU Marketplace. Follow the instructions below to access the custom catalog.

Navigate to MyRutgers
Launch RU Marketplace
Select SHI International
Select Company Standards
Select ITS Supported Accessories
Review approved options and check out. Items can be delivered directly to the user's office.

" KB0016341 ITS ITS - Request for Additional or Newer Student Computer "

Student computers are upgraded as viable staff computers become available from upgrades and replacements. If a department requests an extra computer, it will be put in the request queue.

Collect any info available for the request such as:
Current computer setup (model)
NetID of the user it's for (if it's for a specific user)
Building and room number
Reassign Incident to ESD - ITS Field Support.
Student Computer Upgrade Requests

Student-use computers are changed as better replacements become available. The computers used for this purpose are staff computers that were exchanged for new computers by our department. There are many reasons a computer cannot be used as an upgrade. New computer upgrades are taking place all the time; however, it is not known if the replaced computer can be used until it is checked, making it impossible to predict when replacements will become available.

We understand that in some cases this presents a problem for our users. Departments that require expedited or scheduled replacement have the option of asking ITS to purchase a computer to replace or supplement computers for student use. The funds required to purchase these computers are the responsibility of the requesting department.

Additional Computer Requests

An additional computer for non-full-time staff members can be requested and placed on a waiting list. The computers used for this purpose are staff computers that were replaced with new computers by our department. Most of the above information applies to additional computer requests, including estimated delivery and responsibility for funding.

" KB0016504 ITS ITS - Request for Computer Peripherals "

Optional Accessories available for purchase

NB-ITS has partnered with SHI to provide direct access to pre-approved technology. This includes essential IT accessories such as wireless keyboards/mice, webcams, and chargers. This partnership aims to streamline the ordering process and enhance access to the needed tools. The custom catalog is available directly through RU Marketplace. Follow the instructions below to access the custom catalog. Basic wired keyboards and mice can still be obtained through Dispatch.

Navigate to MyRutgers
Launch RU Marketplace
Select SHI International
Select Company Standards
Select ITS Supported Accessories
Review approved options and check out. Items can be delivered directly to the user's office.


Other Devices
Keyboards and mice

Users can get basic ones through dispatch. Wireless ones can be purchased on RU Marketplace.

Speakers

Users can get basic ones through dispatch. Users can purchase specific/special speakers through ESD - ITS Field Support.

Webcams

Users can purchase these through the RU Marketplace

Swipe Card Readers and Signature Pads

Users can purchase these through ESD - ITS Field Support.

Troubleshooting
Check USB connection.
Install appropriate drivers
Routers

Not supported.

Scanners

Users can purchase these through ESD - ITS Field Support. These are USB connections. Typically need a specific Cannon driver called CaptureOn Touch or Capture Perfect can be downloaded from the website.

Printers
All printers must be purchased through ESD - ITS Field Support.
We do not support all-in-one, multifunction, or ink-jet based printers.
For office copiers (i.e. Xerox, Ricoh, etc.), we support the scanning and network printing functions, not fax.
Network Printers
Network printers are on our network connected via Ethernet.
Naming convention: LocationP1/ND1. Example: LSHA301P1 or LSHA301ND1.
If there are multiple printers in one room, follow naming pattern like computers. Example: LSHA301P1, P2, etc.
Local Printers
Local printers are not on the network. They are connected to an individual PC via USB.
These printers are not assigned names, but you can rename once installed.
Laptops
We don t service personal laptops, only laptops bought through ITS departments.
You can identify if a laptop is ours by asking for the name of the laptop, which should be on a label.
Caveat: We can assist in setting up VPN and Remote Desktop on personal laptops.
External HDDs
Users can request purchasing external hard drives through ESD - ITS Field Support.
Send user a note asking what the purpose for the device and that they are responsible for any Rutgers data loss or misuses.
Mobile Devices
We support Androids, iPhones, and Windows mobile devices (Surface Pros).

" KB0016394 ITS ITS - Residence Life Access to Odyssey "

In order to access Odyssey, users must first have a HARS username and password. If they don't have one, they can request it from either Bill O'Brien (William.OBrien@rutgers.edu) or Ryan Kassis (rk745@echo.rutgers.edu).

Once they have their HARS account, they will need to log into a terminal server, which is where Odyssey runs. This is the only way to access Odyssey. If there are issues with the server itself, for example if you ping hmstsrl.ufcp.rutgers.edu and the ping requests times out, then Ryan Kassis needs to reach out to the Housing IT contact to let them know.

To access Odyssey
Make sure the user has a Remote Desktop profile file called Odyssey.RDP.
If the user's computer does not have this, they will need to have their System Admin deploy it via Group Policy.
Right click and edit Odyssey.RDP
Expand Show Options if it's visible
Ensure the Computer field is pointed to Odyssey server's address: ipohmsrds3.rad.rutgers.edu and the user name field is filled as follows.




Hit Save and click on Connect
Check the box that says Don't ask me again for connections to this computer then click Connect.




Click OK on the next screen.




At this point, they should be able to see the Odyssey icon on the desktop of the terminal server where they are logged in. In the future, if they need to remote access the server again, they can simply open Odyssey.rdp and enter their HARS account password.






NOTE: IF PC IS BEING REPLACED, NEW PC MUST RETAIN IP ADDRESS OF OLD PC

This is the list of users and their IP addresses which must be the same after a PC replacement.



IP ADDRESS

	



	

Name

	

NetID

	

Location




172.16.77.40

	

Odyssey HMS

	

Catherine Breck

	

cbreck

	

Davidson




172.24.45.67

	

Odyssey HMS

	

Matt Gruber

	

mattgrub

	

Camden




172.24.130.217

	

Odyssey HMS

	

Kaitlyn Hanson

	

kmh291

	

Camden




172.24.45.8

	

Odyssey HMS

	

Allison Wisniewski

	

aemery

	

Camden




172.16.77.33

	

Odyssey HMS

	

Judy DSouza

	

jd1027

	

Davidson




172.16.77.12

	

Odyssey HMS

	

Hope DiCapua

	

hdicapua

	

Busch Office




172.16.77.50

	

Odyssey HMS

	

Lisa Ferguson

	

lisaferg

	

Davidson




172.16.12.164

	

Odyssey HMS

	

Sylvia Hove

	

sh821

	

Busch Office




172.16.77.22

	

Odyssey HMS

	

Ryan Kassis

	

rk745

	

Davidson




172.16.77.31

	

Odyssey HMS

	

Kevin Killen

	

kkillen

	

Davidson




172.16.77.5

	

Odyssey HMS

	

Kimberly Kosinski

	

kmk330

	

Davidson




172.19.15.210

	

Odyssey HMS

	

Kathleen Krapf

	

kk905

	

Livingston Office




172.16.77.54

	

Odyssey HMS

	

Nishly Lopez

	

nl480

	

Davidson




172.16.77.36

	

Odyssey HMS

	

James Maguire

	

jvm5th

	

Davidson




172.16.77.37

	

Odyssey HMS

	

Kathleen McCarthy

	

Goodrich

	

Davidson




172.19.15.212

	

Odyssey HMS

	

Donna Olbrys

	

dolbrys

	

College Ave Office




172.20.11.237

	

Odyssey HMS

	

Dawn Salomon

	

salomon

	

College Ave Office




172.16.77.12

	

Odyssey HMS

	

Antonietta Simunek

	

Asimunek

	

Davidson




172.18.17.75

	

Odyssey HMS

	

Floretta Stryker

	

fstryker

	

Livingston Office




172.16.77.2

	

Odyssey HMS

	

Michael Tolbert

	

mtolbert

	

Davidson




172.24.130.204

	

Odyssey HMS

	

Diseree Tyler

	

diseree

	

Camden




172.20.11.227

	

Odyssey HMS

	

Ayesha Wilson

	

aywilson

	

Cook/Douglass Office




172.26.24.80

	

Odyssey HMS

	

Ayat Ibraheim

	

aei3

	

Newark



ipohmsrds3.rad.rutgers.edu

" KB0016686 ITS ITS - Scheduling ITS Dispatch Appointments "

There will be times when troubleshooting or addressing an issue via phone or email does not result in a resolution. If that is the case, please speak with a Help Desk Supervisor so they can determine if the issue can be dispatched. Dispatch is a service offered by the labs on all campuses, where consultants visit the staff office area of the caller in order to assist them with their issue in person.

If ITS Field Support or Shanna requests via Slack for an appointment to be scheduled with a user, follow the instructions below starting at step 2. When it has been scheduled, reply as a comment to the Slack message and note that it has been scheduled, including the date and time of the appointment.

The groups that are supported by ITS can be found here.

For scheduling ResNet/RUWireless Residence Hall dispatch appointments, view that knowledge article.

L2/Supervisors scheduling appointment
Determine if dispatch is an option that can help the user.
Typically, dispatch can handle issues such as:
Computer move/set up
Software installation that cannot be completed over Bomgar
Cable or computer peripheral replacement
Determining if there are network/physical issues with a port
New User Orientation
If dispatch is not suitable, the incident should be reassigned to ESD - ITS Field Support. Examples of incidents that should be reassigned to Field include:
Equipment replacement/order
Machine migration to RAD
Access to display TVs
Once dispatch is deemed suitable, create a Task for the Incident.
In the Task, be sure to include the following:
Equipment to bring to the appointment and full details of the issue
For most appointments with port-related issues, they will want to bring the Dispatch Laptop, Fluke, and Ethernet cable.
The peripherals/cables needed for replacement
Location
Contact information
Contact person
Availability
Assign the task to the proper campus
NB-Labs - Busch
NB-Labs - College Ave
NB-Labs - Cook/Douglass
NB-Labs - Livingston
Schedule the Dispatch with the user.
Dispatch hours vary. If communicating with the user via email, inform them to call the Help Desk to schedule an appointment to avoid back-and-forth email.
If it is during dispatch hours, call over to the corresponding lab. Dispatch consultants can either take the dispatch right now if the availability works out or work with the user to schedule for a future date. If no dispatch consultant is available, a Lab Supervisor should be able to assist.
Busch - (848-445-2760)
College Avenue (Academic Building) - (848-932-0310)
Cook/Douglass - (848-932-9750)
Livingston - (848-445-3465)
Do not schedule same-day appointments without speaking to local staff.
If there is no dispatch consultant or Lab Supervisor available, the Help Desk can schedule the appointment with the user via the Bookings calendar.
If the Help Desk schedules an appointment, post in the esd_nb_hdlabs_dispatch channel on Slack with the following information:
Tag the appointments with [ITS] and [campus]
Incident number and Task number
Appointment date/time
After the dispatch appointment:
If the dispatch consultant resolves the incident, they will also resolve the TASK.
If they are unable to resolve it, they will reach out to the HD for further escalation (ITS Field FT).

Note: ITS Field Full Time staff may also schedule work directly on the bookings calendar with at least 48 hours' notice when there is pre-scheduled work and additional help is needed. This may include computer installations/moves, office moves, inventory, etc.

Canceling/rescheduling a dispatch appointment
Verify the user's contact info and appointment information vs what's in their Incident/Task and the Bookings calendar.
Add a Work Note to the Incident Task listing the reason why the appointment is being cancelled/rescheduled.
Reach out to Full Time and request that they cancel the appointment on the bookings calendar.
Post in the #esd_nb_hdlabs_dispatch slack channel:
Incident Number/Task Number [CAMPUS] Dispatch appointment for [DATE/TIME] was cancelled by the user
Handle the Task:
If cancelling, mark the Task as Closed Skipped. Resolve the Incident if the user no longer needs assistance regarding their issue; otherwise, handle the Incident appropriately.
If rescheduling, assist the user with booking a new appointment and update the Task accordingly. Post the new appointment info in the #esd_nb_hdlabs_dispatch Slack channel.

" KB0016296 ITS ITS - Shared Drive - Restoring Deleted Folders "

Restoring deleted shared folders. Only recently deleted files can be restored.

Access the shared drive. Navigate to the folder in which the files were deleted.
Right-click and choose Properties
Select the Previous Versions tab. A list of "Folder versions" will appear.
To restore the entire folder, choose the appropriate folder (which is sorted according to date) and click on Restore.
To restore a specific file only, choose the appropriate folder (which is sorted according to date) and click on View.
Copy and paste the appropriate files.

" KB0016310 ITS ITS - Shared Drive - Troubleshooting/Mapping "

Note: Before proceeding, we need to know the name of the folder the user needs (Ex. "Zimmerli", "Oasis", "Disability", etc.). Often times, users will request access to "the I drive", for example. This does not give sufficient information that is needed, as any letter can be assigned to the mapped shared drive, as long as that letter is not assigned to something else; it does not tell us the specific folder the user needs access to. Therefore, we must obtain name of the folder from the user before proceeding.

Ask if the user has been granted access to the shared drive or had used it previously?

If the answer is no, they would need to request access.
If they are Full Time Staff, escalate to ESD - ITS System Admins to grant access.
If they are a Student, ask for their FT supervisor to email the Help Desk for the request.
You can search ServiceNow incidents with the user's name to see if they have been granted access before.
Sometimes users may have issues accessing the shared drive, even though they've accessed it before.
One reason this can occur is the user is working from a non-Rutgers location and they are trying to access the shared drive but have not connected to the VPN (Cisco AnyConnect)
Alternatively, they may see the Cisco AnyConnect icon in the bottom right of the task bar and believe they are signed into the VPN but are not.
Another reason the user may not be able to access the shared drive is because the drive isn't mapped to the correct location.
This shouldn't anymore since the drives were migrated and when they were, most users already already reached out to us and and had the drives remapped.
However, if this issue does come up, the shared drive needs to be disconnected and readded.
If it doesn't begin with \\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits for the path, it's likely mapped incorrectly.
You should see the name of the folder with \\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\folder next to it in parenthesis)
How to disconnect a shared drive

It is best to do this for the user, in a Bomgar session, incase any issues arise.

In File Explorer, on the left side bar you should see This PC (or My Computer), Network, and the mapped shared drive.
Right-click on the shared drive.
Select Disconnect.
You should see the shared drive disappear.
How to map a shared drive path

It is best to do this for the user, in a Bomgar session, incase any issues arise.

In File Explorer, Right-click on My Computer (or This PC).
Select Map Network Drive...
Select any drive letter (ex. "A", "I", "Z", etc.).
The letter does not matter, so long as it's not assigned already.
Write the path for the shared folder in the Folder: field (\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\folder)
Make sure to check Reconnect at sign-in so the drive automatically connects each time the user logs in.
Let the user know that if they are working from home and wish to access the shared drive, they will need to launch Cisco AnyConnect and sign into it.
Select Finish.

If these steps are completed successfully, the shared drive should pop up after selecting Finish, though sometimes it can take a minute or two to connect.

List of shared drives/folders migrated

List may not be complete.

Shared Drive path: \\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\nbits\NAME

Shared drive paths for each department's folders
Name	RAD Shared Drive Path	
AFROTC	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\AFROTC	
AROTC	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\AROTC	
Byrne Seminars	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\Byrne	
Career Services	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\CES	
Center on Policing	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\COP	
Douglass Residential College	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\DRC	
Honors College	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\Honors	
J Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\Zimmerli	
Learning Centers	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\LC	
Marketing,Media Communications	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\Media	
NBITS	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\ITS	
Occ Health	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\OccHealth	
Office of Ombudsman	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\Ombuds	
Office of Disability Services (ODS)	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\Disability	
R-Comm	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\RCOMM	
RDAR	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\RADR	
Residence Life	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\ResLife	
Rutgers Health Services	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\Health	
SA - Fraternity and Sorority Affairs	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\FSA	
SA Business Office SBO	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\VCSBO	
SA-Asian American Cultural Center	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\AACC	
SA-Compliance/Title IX	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\TitleIX	
SA-Center for Latino Arts & Culture	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\CLAC	
SA-Dean of Students	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\DOS	
SA-Off-Campus Living	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\Off_Campus	
SA-Office of Student Conduct	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\Student_Conduct	
SA-Paul Robeson Cultural Center	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\PRCC	
SA-Recreation	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\Recreation	
SA-SJE & LGBT Communities	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\SJE	
SA-Student Affairs, VP (OVC)	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\OVC	
SA-Student Legal Services	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\SLS	
SA-Student Orientation	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\Student_Orientation	
SA-Violence Prev & Victim Asst	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\VPVA	
Scheduling and Space Management	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\OASIS	
Student Activities Business Office (SABO)	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\SABO	
Student Centers & Activities	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\Student_Centers	
VC DICE/EECP	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\EECP	
(VC DICE/EECP has 2 folders)	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\DICE	
Veteran Affairs	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\Veterans	
Profiles (folder)	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\Profiles	
Shared (folder)	\\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\Nbits\Shared	
List of Shared Drives/Folders not migrated

List may not be complete.

Shared drive path: \\its1.its.rutgers.edu\shares\Name

AAC
AEP
Aresty
Byrne
China
CLAC
Cultural_Centers
Disability
Division_Shared
Health
Honors_College
IEPHS
ITS
Judaffdos
NBCO1
ODF
PRCC
Services
SJE
SLS
SSM
student_conduct
student_engagement
StuEngagement
StuInsurance
StuInvolvement
TCC
Titleix
UAA
uaa_programs
uaa_programs_to _delete
UCC
VCSA
VCSABO
VPVA
webdav
List of departments that no longer have an active share drive
Aresty Research
Digital Classroom Services
Parent Teacher Association
Research and Assessment

" KB0016295 ITS ITS - Smartview Installs "

Download for Smartview Installer, this link should have the latest version: https://go.rutgers.edu/NbitsSmartview

Close out Office programs.
Run the Smartview.exe as the user (not Admin).
Once complete, open Excel, open a blank worksheet.
Click File > Options > Add Ins
Make sure Oracle Smart view for Office is in the "Active Application Add-ins".

" KB0016476 ITS ITS - Software licenses "

Most licenses can be procured from software.rutgers.edu.

If it is generic software (Firefox, Zoom, etc), it can be deployed to a computer via KACE. If you do not have access to KACE, reassign to ESD - ITS Field Support.
If users are requesting other free software that is available from the Software Portal, assist them with obtaining it.
If the user wants software from the Software Portal that requires payment, reassign the incident to ESD - ITS Field Support.

When it comes to software purchase requests, they go to ESD - ITS Field Support. While we will process these requests, departments will need to fund the purchases of software.

" KB0016314 ITS ITS - Synchronization Issues in Outlook "

When synchronization issues occur in Microsoft Outlook or in Microsoft Outlook Web App (formerly Outlook Web Access), you may experience the following symptoms:

You see differences or mismatches between the messages that you receive in Microsoft Outlook compared to Microsoft Outlook Web App.
You have an issue with Outlook, but the issue does not occur when cached mode is disabled.
Occasionally you receive error messages when you synchronize your Offline Folder file (.ost) in Outlook with your mailbox on a server that is running Microsoft Exchange Server.
You notice that some items such as email messages, appointments, contacts, tasks, journal entries, notes, posted items, and documents are missing from your .ost file or from your mailbox after you synchronize your .ost file and your mailbox.
Solution

Rebuild the .ost file; to do this, delete the .ost file, and then let Outlook download the information again from the Exchange Server.

The OST Integrity Check Tool runs only on .ost files and can be used to diagnose and repair synchronization issues. It scans your local copy of the .ost file and your mailbox on an Exchange Server. The tool compares items and folders in the file and in your mailbox and tries to reconcile synchronization differences between the files and the mailbox.

The OST Integrity Check Tool does not change your mailbox on the Exchange Server. The tool records any differences in a scan log so that you can see what differences the tool found and resolved. The scan log also identifies any situations that the tool could not resolve and that you must fix manually. The scan log is in your Deleted Items folder.

The OST Integrity Check Tool (Scanost.exe) is installed when you install Outlook in the following locations, as appropriate for the Outlook version that you are running.

For Outlook 2003: drive:\Program Files\Common Files\System\MSMAPI\LocaleID folder. Be aware that in this example, LocaleID is the locale identifier (LCID) for the installation of Microsoft Office. The LCID for English - United States is 1033.

For Outlook 2007: drive:\Program Files\Microsoft Office\OFFICE12

How to repair errors by using Scanost.exe
Exit Outlook 2003 or Outlook 2007 if it is running.
Double-click Scanost.exe.
If you have set up Outlook to prompt you for a profile, the tool also prompts you for a profile. In the Profile Name list, select the profile that contains the .ost file that you want to check. If you are prompted to Connect or to Work Offline, select Connect.
Select the options that you want. To have the tool automatically resolve differences that it finds during the scan, select the Repair Errors check box. If this check box is cleared, the tool logs the problems. However, the tool does not make the necessary corrections.
Select Begin Scan.

Note:

To view the scan log, start Outlook, and then open the Deleted Items folder. The tool does not scan the Deleted Items folder. Any problems are noted in a message that has "OST Integrity Check" as its Subject.
If you have problems opening your .ost file, you can use the Inbox Repair tool (Scanpst.exe) to diagnose and repair errors.
The Inbox Repair tool can be used on both .ost files and on Personal Folders (.pst) files. The Inbox Repair tool scans the .ost or .pst file and makes sure that the file structure is intact. The tool also tries to repair the internal data structures, if it is necessary. The tool does not interact with your mailbox on the Exchange Server.
How to rebuild the .ost file
Locate the following folder, as appropriate for the operating system that you are running.
For Windows Vista and later versions: C:\Users\<alias>\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Outlook
If the folder is not displayed, unhide the folder.
To do this, follow these steps (For Windows 8 and Windows 10)
On the View tab, select the Hidden items check box, and the File name extensions check box.

Note: This OneNote page information was copied from this link (to an article from 03/31/2022):
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-US/outlook/troubleshoot/synchronization/synchronization-issues-occur-in-outlook-owa

Additional note: The link/article applies to Outlook 2019, Outlook 2016, Office 2016, Outlook 2013, Microsoft Office Outlook 2007, Microsoft Office Outlook 2003

" KB0016321 ITS ITS - Transfer User Data Remotely "

This article explains how to transfer user data remotely when the user is requesting to have their files moved after relocating their office. This method does not require the client to be present at the computer; however, it assumes the user has logged onto the workstation at least once.

Open my computer and click on Map Network Drive.
In the Folder section, type in \\Source_Computer_Name\c$
example name: pcname.its.rutgers.edu
Check off Connect using different credentials and then input your admin credentials when prompted.
After the drive opens, go to the Users folder and select the user's NetID. This will take you to their user data directory.
Repeat steps 1-4 for the replacement computer, with the folder section \\Destination_Computer_Name\c$
Once both locations are mapped, open up the source and destination windows side by side and perform the following actions until all of the user directories are copied to the destination computer.
Open the same folder on the source and destination computers.
i.e. Desktop folder on both computers
Right-click and choose Select All to choose all of the files from the source computer.
Open up the folder within the destination computer and right-click to paste the information.
If you are prompted to merge existing folders, choose yes.
Repeat until all of the directories are copied over to the destination computer.

This method assumes that the client has logged into the new computer at least once beforehand. This is so that the user's directory can be created and a few other registry changes can take effect.

" KB0016311 ITS ITS - Windows Expiring License Error Message "

Upon reboot, user would get notification that the Windows key was expiring. To fix this, follow these steps:

Go to the Software portal.
Search for Microsoft Windows 10 Enterprise
Click the down arrow next to Get Product.
You will see Single user license (University Equipment only). Select Add to Cart at the bottom of the box and click check-out.
Select a delivery method (on the right-hand side, in the grey section)
Hover over My Account in the top right-hand corner of the site and in the drop-down menu, click My Software.
The Microsoft Windows 10 Enterprise License should show there and the key should be listed (you might have to select license information, more information, or something to that effect)
On the user's computer, go to Settings (the cogwheel on the left when selecting the Start menu).
Go to System and then on the very bottom of the left-hand column, click About.
Scroll down to Change product key or upgrade your edition of Windows.
Click Change product key and then click Next.
The License Key should be updated and the user should be all set.

" KB0016328 ITS ITS - Zoom - Department Accounts "

In addition to personal RU Zoom accounts that students, staff, and faculty can provision, users can request Shared Department Zoom accounts to be used for Departments

If a user is requesting a Shared Department Zoom account for their department, please direct them to the following form: https://go.rutgers.edu/nbitsdeptzoom

This will gather all the information necessary to provision the account. This automatically creates a ticket in the Sysadmin queue with all the details from the form.

It takes 1-2 business days to get these accounts provisioned because we must request these accounts with OIT and there is a lag time associated with that.

OIT has confirmed that Student Organizations are allowed to have Department Zoom accounts provisioned as well. We would want those to come from the RU Staff Advisor.

" KB0015716 Labs Labs - Adding paper to Ricoh and Kyocera printers "

When to add paper to printers

Adding paper to printers can occur at any point in time, and it is especially beneficial to add paper before a printer is all out of paper. If you are unsure if a printer is low on paper, check the printer trays, the display screen on the printer, or Icinga. Icinga will display an "unhandled service" message regarding the paper trays if it is low or out of paper.

Checking paper levels on Incinga

To check toner levels & page counts, you will follow the steps below:

Navigate to Icinga. When logging in, log in with your NetID-adm account.
Select Overview > Hostgroups once you are logged in.
Select the appropriate campus.
The page will display all the printers located on the selected campus. Selecting each printer will provide relevant information about each printer. If a printer displays the error message "Unhandled Services", selecting the message will indicate the current issues a printer will have. An example error message regarding low paper in a paper tray is as follows:

Adding Paper

In the Rutgers Computing Labs, there are Ricoh and Kyocera printers. Ricoh printers have four separate paper trays that each need paper, while the Kyoceras only have one tray for paper. Each printer has its trays adjusted to fit 8.5x11 paper, and this is the only size they can print. Refrain from completely filling the paper trays when adding paper, as this will cause frequent paper jams.

Common Issues After Adding Paper

Sometimes after adding paper, the printer status will not update to reflect the new paper level. This will continue to cause an "unhandled service" error in Icinga and may also prevent the printer from printing. In this scenario, try restarting the printer using the power button. This will clear the error and allow the printer to determine an accurate paper tray level.

" KB0018106 Labs Labs - Alarm Pins and Printer Lock Codes for College Avenue and Livingston "

This knowledge article will review the alarm pins and codes for College Avenue and Livingston. Alarm pins are needed to arm and disarm the alarm for the computer labs. Each consultant should be familiar with the alarm system. Printer Lock Codes are used to lock and unlock the printer paper trays.

College Avenue
Alarm Pin

Each College Avenue consultant will have a unique pin. An alarm pin is only needed for the Academic Building, as the library staff opens the DLC for consultants. Consultants are granted PIN access by full-time staff members. If you are unsure if you have been granted PIN access, please check with a supervisor or full-time staff member. Once PIN access is granted, consultants must contact Identity Access and Management to receive their code. The number for Identity and Access Management is 848-445-5050. Their office hours are Monday through Friday, 8 am to 4:30 pm. Consultants will need their Rutgers ID on hand when you call. The department will ask for the CVC number on the back of your Rutgers ID Card.

Printer Lock Codes

The DLC, College Avenue Student Center, and Art Library printers utilize locks on the paper trays. The code is 5625. The paper trays should remain locked at all times and be unlocked only when paper is added to the printer.

DLC-Specific Codes

All College Avenue consultants will have swipe access to the supply closet in the DLC. Inside the closet is the lock box, which can be unlocked by using the code 0319E. Inside the lockbox, there are keys for the consultant station cabinets and the iPad used to complete the room reservation forms. Please be sure to immediately return the keys to the lockbox after they have been used. The code to unlock the iPad is 454357. Please fill out the iPad Tracking form during shift change so we can track who has the iPad when it is not locked up. Remember to return the iPad and place it on the charger when closing.



Livingston
Alarm Pin

The Livingston Computing Center has a shared alarm pin that is the same for every consultant. The alarm pin for the Livingston Computing Center is 84331 for disarming at opening. The alarm code to arm it at closing is 84332. The library staff at Carr Library will open the building for consultants.

Printer Lock Codes

The printers at the Carr Library and the Livingston Student Center have locks on the paper trays. The code for the paper tray is 5079. The paper trays should remain locked at all times and be unlocked only when paper is added to the printer. At Carr Library, the paper is in locked cabinets, and a key is in a lock box to the far left of the cabinets. The code for the lockbox is 1235. The key must be returned to the lock box, which must be locked when not used. If the key is missing, please report the issue to the supervisors right away.

" KB0016858 Labs Labs - Audio Booth Troubleshooting "

The Alexander Library Digital Learning Commons (DLC) audio booth is available for patrons. To reserve the booth, patrons must schedule an appointment. For more details on how to book a room, please refer to the knowledge article on Bookable Rooms for Patrons.

Table of Contents
General troubleshooting steps
Accessing the computer
Microphone setup
Audacity guide
Audacity settings
Mixer guide
Mixer settings
Windows settings
General troubleshooting steps

If a patron is unable to record audio, follow these steps:

Ensure all cables are correctly connected to the mixer and the mixer is powered on.
Test each microphone by speaking into it and verifying its connection on the mixer.
Open Audacity and make a test recording with each microphone to confirm the audible playback.

If additional troubleshooting is required, please refer to the rest of this article for more information.

Accessing the computer

Patrons should log in to the audio booth computer using their NetID and password. If they encounter any login issues, check the network connection and verify the NetID and password.

Microphone setup

There are two microphones available in the audio booth. The microphones should be positioned close to the patron for optimal sound capture. A distant microphone may fail to pick up sound clearly, resulting in poor recording quality. When troubleshooting microphone issues, ensure the patron speaks clearly and is close to the microphone. The microphones are attached at the base of the microphone arm and the base of the microphone head. Please ensure these connections are secure.

Please refer to the following photos for reference:

Overview of Mic 1




Table mount for Mic 1




Microphone head connection for Mic 1


Overview of Mic 2




Table mount for Mic 2




Microphone head connection for Mic 2




Overview of Mic 3




Wall mount for Mic 3




Microphone head connection for Mic 3


Overview of Mic 4




Wall mount for Mic 4




Microphone head connection for Mic 4


Audacity guide

The audio booth is equipped with Audacity software for audio recording. For software troubleshooting, consult the Audacity Common Troubleshooting Guide. If further assistance is required, please reach out to a supervisor.

For reference, here is an example of what a successful audio test looks like in Audacity:



Here is an example of what an audio test looks like in Audacity when the microphones are muted:





Audacity settings

To ensure that the mixer is being used correctly by the software, please ensure that the following audio setup settings are being used in Audacity:

Audacity > Audio Setup > Host > MME




Audacity > Audio Setup > Playback Device > Speakers (Realtek(R) Audio)




Audacity > Audio Setup > Recording Device > Line (2- ProFX)




Audacity > Audio Setup > Recording Channels > 2 (Stereo) Recording Channels




Mixer guide

Below is a map and key describing most of the settings and features of the mixer:


Key:

GAIN: (first row of white nobs) Adjust these as needed, depending on how far away users sit from the microphones and whether their voices are picked up properly.
Compressor (COMP): (second row of grey nobs) This controls volume normalization - increasing it will cause louder sounds to decrease in volume and quieter sounds to increase in volume (more or less aggressively).
Equalization (EQ): (array of three rows of blue nobs in the center) Adjust these to enhance or remove specific frequencies. Patrons should adjust to their desired levels.
Effects (FX): (row of yellow nobs, fourth row from the bottom) Keep these turned off.
Panning (PAN): (row of white nobs, third row from the bottom) Adjust these depending on whether you want certain voices to be on the left or right; keep them in the middle otherwise.
MUTE: (row of red buttons with the word MUTE, second row from the bottom) To mute a mic, press the MUTE button. If a mic has no output, check that it is not muted and that it is properly plugged in.
LEVEL: (last row of large white nobs) Use this to adjust the actual volume of each microphone, and make sure not to set it too high since distortion and clipping can occur.
Power: (switch is on the back right side of the mixer above the MAIN OUTS label) The Power switch turns the mixer board on and off. Ensure it is turned on before use.
MAIN METERS: (two columns of indicator lights) A visualization of the audio levels, the mic may not be connected or muted if this is not lighting up.
BLEND: (single white nob to the left of the main meters) When the TO PHONES/CR button is depressed, the BLEND knob adjusts the CONTROL ROOM mix between inputs.
TO PHONES/CR: (square grey button below the BLEND nob) When depressed, the CONTROL ROOM mix is adjusted by the BLEND knob. When not depressed, the CONTROL ROOM mix will mirror the Main Mix.
CONTROL ROOM: (small white nob below TO PHONES/CR nob) When the TO PHONES/CR button is depressed, the CONTROL ROOM mix is adjusted by the BLEND knob. When the TO PHONES/CR button is not depressed, the CONTROL ROOM mix will mirror the MAIN mix.
MAIN: (single white nob on the lower right-hand side) Collectively adjusts the volume of all microphones.
Mixer settings

The audio booth features a mixer for adjusting recording settings. It is important to reset the mixer to its default settings before and after each use. When adjusting the mixer, ensure all cables are correctly plugged in and the system is powered on.

Please note that the outlined mixer settings are shown in the Mixer guide image above. The following settings should be used:

Mixer is plugged into the USB port on the back of the computer, not on the side.
M-002 (black cord) is plugged into Line 1.
M-003 (green cord) is plugged into Line 2.
M-004 (green cord) is plugged into Line 3.
HI-Z is pressed on.
LOW CUT is turned off.
GAIN is set to the maximum at +40, to the far right.
COMP is off, all the way to the left.
EQ is set to 0, in the center.
PAN is in the center.
MUTE is disabled, not lit up in red.
LEVEL is set to the maximum at +10, to the far right.
LINE IN 9/10 is turned off.
FX MUTE is turned off.
48V is turned off.
BLEND is in the center.
TO PHONES/CR is turned on.
CONTROL ROOM is in the center.
FX LEVEL is set to 0, in the center.
BREAK is turned off.
PHONES is turned to the minimum at 00, all the way to the left.
MAIN is set to the maximum at +10, to the far right.
Windows settings

If additional troubleshooting is required, you can confirm that the following audio settings are correct in the Windows Control Panel:

Control Panel > Hardware and Sound > Sound > Recording > Line 2 - ProFX is selected.




Select Line > Properties > Listen > Playback through this device, and select Default Playback Device.





" KB0016315 Labs Labs - Bookable Rooms for Patrons "

Table of Contents
General Information
Livingston Computing Lab
Alexander Digital Learning Commons (DLC)
DLC Conference Rooms
DLC Huddle Rooms
Consultant Expectations
Room Reservations and RUID Card Collection
End-of-Day Responsibilities
Additional Resources
Patron Self-Service Rooms
Bookable Rooms that Require Patron Check-in & Check-out
Policies and Procedures Scripts
How to Use the Reservation Form & Check Patrons In
Check-In Steps
Check-Out Steps
Room Closure Reminders
Inspection Guidelines
Tillett Hall
Alexander Digital Learning Commons
General Information

Computer labs provide access to technology and support activities such as research, group projects, coding, and multimedia production. Patrons may reserve bookable rooms in the Digital Learning Commons (DLC) at Alexander Library and the Livingston Computing Lab in Tillett Hall. Because each room contains different equipment and technology, consultants should be familiar with the features and functionality of each space.

To use a bookable room, patrons must reserve a timeslot through LibCal and check in with an OIT consultant. Consultants can view and manage reservations through the LibCal staff portal at studyrooms.libraries.rutgers.edu.

Before granting access, consultants must remind patrons of the following policies:

Food and uncovered beverages are prohibited in all bookable rooms.
Rooms must remain locked when not in use.
Patrons may not use an unreserved room; a valid reservation is required, and standard check-in procedures must be followed.
Room lights must remain on at all times and may not be turned off.
Livingston Computing Lab

The Livingston Computing Lab contains two bookable Breakout Rooms (106F and 106G). Each room is equipped with a Mac Mini connected to a 55-inch television. Using Intel Unite, patrons can connect their personal devices to the room's system and share documents, websites, videos, and other content for collaboration and presentations.

Additional information about the Tillett Breakout Rooms is available on the Rutgers IT Computer Labs website.

Alexander Digital Learning Commons (DLC)

Alexander Library offers several reservable spaces within the Digital Learning Commons. While Rutgers Libraries manages the library's general study rooms, OIT consultants are responsible for the DLC bookable rooms.

Audio & Visual Booths (Rooms 132 and 133)

These rooms allow patrons to create professional-quality video recordings using integrated audiovisual equipment, including cameras and green screens. Lighting, audio, and video settings are preconfigured, enabling users to begin recording with minimal setup. The booths are available to Rutgers students, faculty, and staff with a valid NetID and RUID card.

Audio Booth (Room 130)

The Audio Booth is designed for podcasting, interviews, class assignments, and other audio projects. The room includes:

Four Shure SM7B microphones
Audio recording and mixing equipment
A computer with Audacity pre-installed
Seating for up to three users
Multiple power outlets

The room is available to Rutgers students, faculty, and staff with a valid NetID and RUID card.

DLC Conference Rooms
Room 126G

This conference room accommodates up to 12 users and is equipped with:

Cisco Webex Codec Plus system
Cisco Spark Room Kit Quad Camera
Two Samsung displays
Two table microphones
Two whiteboards
Adjustable podium
Room 131

This conference room accommodates up to 5 users and includes:

Television display
Whiteboard
DLC Huddle Rooms

Huddle Rooms provide a collaborative workspace for small groups. Each room includes a table, office seating, a Samsung TV, and a whiteboard.

Reservable Huddle Rooms:

Room 128H
Room 128M

Self-Service Huddle Rooms:

Room 128S
Room 128T

Each Huddle Room accommodates up to four patrons.

Additional information about the reservable spaces in the DLC is available on the Rutgers Libraries website.

Consultant Expectations

Consultants are responsible for monitoring and maintaining all bookable rooms at lab facilities:

Inspect bookable rooms at opening and before closing.
Report any room issues to a supervisor or full-time staff member as soon as possible.
At the end of each reservation:
Ensure the room is clean.
Verify that all equipment is functioning properly.
Room Reservations and RUID Card Collection

Consultants must complete the reservation form for all campuses. The reservation form is not required for self-service rooms in the DLC.

When patrons use a reservable room:

Collect the patron's RUID card.
Hold RUID cards at the DLC or Tillett at either the consultant station or the supervisor's office.
Never turn over RUID cards to library staff or security.

Before returning a patron's RUID card:

Inspect the room to ensure it is orderly and in the same condition in which it was provided.
Collect the Room Pass.
Document any discrepancies in the room assignments on the reservation form.
Notify a supervisor or full-time staff member of any issues as soon as possible.
End-of-Day Responsibilities

Before the last shift at the DLC or closing at Tillett, consultants must ensure all reservable rooms have been vacated.

Return RUID cards to patrons who are still present at closing time.
Turn over any unclaimed RUID cards to a supervisor for processing in accordance with standard lost RUID card procedures.
Additional Resources

Information about group study rooms and other bookable spaces across the New Brunswick campus can be found through the Rutgers Libraries Site, Bookable Rooms and Technology resources page.

Patron Self-Service Rooms

Within the DLC, there are rooms where consultants do not need to swipe patrons in. These spaces, called self-service rooms, allow patrons to enter without assistance from a consultant. Patrons reserve these rooms on the LibCal Site to promote fair and equitable utilization. Due to the self-service nature of these rooms, the reservation log is not applicable and does not need to be filled out, and RUID card collection is not necessary. Consultants are responsible for ensuring rooms are kept orderly and clean. In instances where verification of patron reservations or conflict resolution arises, consultants may use studyrooms.libraries.rutgers.edu.

The patron self-service rooms are as follows:

128D Pitch Room "Red Room"(Group Study Space)
128H Huddle Room (Group Study Space)
128M Huddle Room (Group Study Space)
128S Huddle Room (Group Study Space)
128T Huddle Room (Group Study Space)
131 Conference Room (Group Study Space)
Bookable Rooms that Require Patron Check-in & Check-out

These rooms require consultants to let the patrons in by swiping them in. When letting patrons into these rooms, consultants will follow the reservation log protocol to check patrons in & out.

The rooms that require patron check-in & check-out are as follows:

Breakout Rooms 106F and 106G (Livingston Computing Center at Tillett Hall)
DLC Audio Booth (Room 130)
DLC AV Rooms (Room 132 and Room 133)
DLC Conference Room (Room 128G)
Policies and Procedures Scripts

When letting patrons enter the bookable rooms, ensure you inform them of all room policies and procedures using the following scripts:

General Script

At the end of your reservation time, ensure you clean up and leave the room the way you found it. Please do not remove any furniture from the room or bring any furniture into the room. If there are any technical difficulties with any Rutgers devices in the room, please let a consultant know and do not try to fix it yourself. The door may not be propped open at any time, and the lights must remain on within the room at all times.

AV Room Script

Use the General Script and then add:

Ensure all mixer dials are reset to baseline after use. Make sure all equipment remains in its proper location and is handled with care. If there are any technical issues during your reservation, please escalate to a consultant; do not attempt to troubleshoot on your own.

One Button Room Script

Use the General Script and then add:

To use the One Button Studio, you will need a flash drive to insert. Do not move or tamper with the One Button Studio equipment. If you need assistance adjusting the equipment, please ask a consultant for help. To enable the green screen, press the green button. To start or stop recording, press either of the red buttons in the room.

Conference Room Script

Use the General Script and then add:

The conference room includes a tablet on the table and a stylus pen located beneath the TV. Please do not remove any items from the room. Instructions for connecting the tablet to the TV are printed on the tablet. If you need assistance, please ask a consultant.

How to Use the Reservation Form & Check Patrons In

When using the reservation check-in/out forms, begin by filling out the Check-In section. When a patron leaves a room, you will fill out the Check-Out section for that patron. The most up-to-date Alex DLC Reservation Form and the Tillett Reservation Form can both be found on the Level 1 and Level 2 Consultant Dashboard in ServiceNow.

Check-In Steps
Confirm patron reservation on studyrooms.libraries.rutgers.edu.
Request the patron's RUID card and confirm it is the correct one for the patron checking in. When taking the patron's RUID card, remind the patron that it is kept at the consultant station and will be returned upon check-out inspection. Remind patrons they cannot bring food or uncovered beverages into the bookable rooms.
Place the RUID card into the designated basket at the consultant station, and attach it to the colored card corresponding to the reserved room. Please provide the patron with the correct Room Pass for their reservation.
Open the reservation form for the respective location.
Within the form, fill out the appropriate fields.
Before letting patrons enter the room, inspect it to ensure it is ready for patron use. Refer to the inspection guidelines for what is expected in each room. Any discrepancies with the room should be noted in the reservation form with a photo and brought to a supervisor immediately.
Once the room is deemed ready for patron use, you may let the patron in.
Check-Out Steps
Open the reservation form for the respective location.
Within the form, fill out the appropriate fields.
Inform the patron that you will inspect the room before giving back their RUID card.
Inspect the room to ensure it is functional and ready for the next patron. Refer to the inspection guidelines for what is expected in each room. Any discrepancies with the room should be noted in the reservation log and brought to a supervisor immediately. Once the room is inspected, note it in the reservation log accordingly.
Return the patron's RUID card, collect their Room Pass, and indicate in the form that the RUID card has been returned.
Room Closure Reminders
If patrons are present in a room at the end of the final consultant shift, consultants must complete all room check-out procedures before leaving.
Patrons must be informed that the room closes when consultants leave for the night and that all RUID cards and Room Passes must be returned before departure.
Under no circumstances may patrons remain in any room after consultants have left for the night. All rooms must be vacated before the end of the final shift.
Consultants must provide patrons with advance notice of closing, including:
A reminder 30 minutes before the end of the final shift.
A final reminder 15 minutes before the end of the final shift.
Consultants are responsible for ensuring that all patrons have exited the room and that all access materials have been returned before leaving for the night.
What to do with Patron RUID Cards

Patron RUID cards are to be kept at the consultant station in the designated basket until patrons check out of the rooms. If a patron leaves their RUID card and does not check out, please report it to a supervisor so they can follow our guidelines for recovered patron RUID cards. Consultants should note that the patron did not check out in the Comments section of the reservation log. The room is still to be inspected and updated in the log.

Inspection Guidelines

When checking each bookable room, ensure it is functional and clean for patrons. Refer to the checklist below for each room.

Tillett Hall
Breakout Rooms (106F and 106G)
General cleanliness.
TV is on.
Clean the whiteboards.
Ensure each room has 10 chairs.
Room 106G




Room 106F


Alexander Digital Learning Commons
Audio Booth (Room 130)
General cleanliness.
Check that the mixer is turned on.
Ensure that all four microphones are in the booth.
The microphones are highlighted in the red box within the images.
Log in to the computer to ensure it is working.
If troubleshooting is needed, please refer to the Audio Booth Troubleshooting Knowledge Article.

AV Rooms (Room 132 and Room 133)
General cleanliness.

Ensure that the One Button Studio is plugged in and working.




Make sure the lights are plugged in and working correctly. There are two lights in each room.




Ensure that the microphones are plugged in and working correctly. There is only one microphone in each room.


Conference Room (Room 128G)
General cleanliness.
Ensure 12 chairs are in the room.




The TV is turned on, the input is set to HDMI 3, and the connections are secure.




The tablet is turned on and working.

The connection ports on the conference table are secure and working.

An instruction sheet for the equipment use and the remote control is provided.


Huddle Rooms (Room 128H and Room 128M)
Clean the whiteboards.
Ensure five chairs are in the room.
General cleanliness.
TVs are on and are working.

128D Pitch Room "Red Room."
Clean the whiteboards.
Ensure the six red chairs are in the room.
General cleanliness.
The TV turns on and is working.

128S Huddle Room
Ensure four grey chairs and one yellow cushion are in the room.
Two white tables are in the room.
Two wooden tables are in the room. One will be smaller, see the pictures below.
General cleanliness.
The TV turns on and is working.
TV remote.

128T Huddle Room
Ensure six red chairs and one blue cushion are in the room.
General cleanliness.
The TV turns on and is working.
TV remote.

Room 131 Conference Room
General cleanliness.
The TV turns on and is working.
Cleaning the whiteboard.
Ensure five blue chairs are in the room.



" KB0015732 Labs Labs - Carr Library Printer Lock "

These locks should be locked at all times, and should only be unlocked when adding paper or servicing the printer. Please speak to a supervisor if you do not know the Carr Library Printer Lock Code!

To Unlock
Enter lock code as illustrated (pattern order shown in yellow).
Rotate dial clockwise to disengage the latch (same direction as red arrow).
Carefully pull the front piece forward to remove it.

To Lock
Carefully slide the front piece back into the metal bracket (metal bracket shown in first picture).
To avoid damage to lock and printer, do not use force. Rotate dial counterclockwise, and scramble the code.

" KB0018781 Labs Labs - Conference Room 128G Guide "

Table of Contents
Introduction
Screen Sharing
Connecting with Mersive Solstice
Connecting with Webex
Wired Connection
Conference Calls
Introduction

In the Alexander Library Digital Learning Commons, Conference Room 128G is an available room for patrons to book. The room includes a tablet that connects to the TV and supports multiple connection methods. Additionally, the TV is touchscreen and comes with a stylus pen for drawing, which is located on the bottom shelf.

Important note: The TV input must be set to HDMI 3 before utilizing the following functions.

Screen Sharing
On the tablet's home screen, one option is screen share. This will allow personal devices to be screen-shared onto the TV.




Connecting with Mersive Solstice
First, make sure Solstice is selected under the share screen tab.




Open the Mersive Solstice app, and enter the IP address in the search bar at the top of your screen.




Then there will be a prompt to enter the code that is displayed on the TV to connect the device.
Connecting with Webex
Rutgers students, staff, and faculty have access to Webex; however, they may need to activate their account first. Once activated, they can either access Webex through a web browser or by downloading the app. On the tablet, select Webex and open it on the device you wish to connect to.




Navigate to share.webex.com and enter the code as shown on the tablet to connect the device. Alternatively, open the Webex app and select the screen-sharing button in the top-left corner.




After selecting the share screen button, a new page will come up that should show the conference room TV (CAC-AL-128G). Select Connect and follow the prompts to begin screensharing. If the TV does not come up on this screen, select the blue button at the bottom to enter the 9-character code, then follow the prompts.




Wired Connection
The TV also has a USB port and an HDMI port for screen sharing from a personal device. These cables are located on the conference room table next to the tablet.




Conference Calls
The tablet also comes with Zoom, Teams, Webex, and a video-calling application installed, all accessible from the tablet's home page. To make calls on Zoom and Teams, enter the meeting ID and password if applicable. For the call function, enter a phone number to make the conference call. For Webex, enter a phone number, Webex account, or Webex room to join or start a conference call.
Important note: The TV input must be set to HDMI 3 when making a conference call.






" KB0019417 Labs Labs - DLC Opening/Closing/EOS Procedures "

Opening
Retrieve the iPad and cabinet keys from the supply closet
The supply closet is next to 128G and requires RUID swipe access to enter
Take all tools (hole puncher, staplers, paperclips, and tape dispensers) out of the cabinets and put them out for patrons to use
Keys for the cabinets are found in the supply closet inside the lockbox
Check each of the reservable rooms to ensure that everything is where it should be and is operational
For more information on how to do a room check at the DLC, please view this knowledge article
Reservations begin 30 minutes after opening, so ensure the rooms are ready before then
Check all of the printers on Icinga to make sure they have enough paper
Walk around the DLC and ensure that all chairs and whiteboards are where they should be and are undamaged
If you noticed anything that was not correct, please reach out to a supervisor either in person or on Slack
Closing
Fill all printers with paper
Check each reservable room and make sure everything is where it should be, and all patrons have exited the room
Reservations end 30 minutes before closing, so ensure all patrons have exited by that time
When leaving the rooms, make sure the door closes fully so the rooms are secure overnight
For more information on how to do a room check at the DLC, please view this knowledge article
Ensure that no RUIDs from reservations remain in the consultant station
Place all tools (hole puncher, staplers, paperclips, and tape dispensers) back into the cabinets and lock the cabinet
Take the iPad and cabinet keys back to the supply closet and place them in the lockbox for safe storage overnight

The iPad should be plugged into the charger located inside the lockbox
Walk around the DLC and ensure that all chairs and whiteboards are where they should be and are undamaged
If you noticed anything that was not correct, please reach out to a supervisor either in person or on Slack
Lockbox/iPad Code

When opening the lockbox (to retrieve the iPad/keys during opening and put them back during closing), you will need to enter the lockbox code in order to open it. The code can be found in this knowledge article (which also contains all other codes that you will need across various sites). In addition to this, the iPad requires a passcode, which is also located in the aforementioned KA.

Shift Turnover
At the end of every shift, you must give the iPad to your relief
Then fill out the iPad handoff form, so there is a record of who has possession of the iPad
Let your relief know the status of the reservable rooms and if there have been any issues during your shift

" KB0015118 Labs Labs - Escalating lab machines for device repair "


When to escalate

There are several cases when we will need to escalate an issue. This escalation can occur when a machine may have a hardware issue such as the screen is not turning on, or there is a physical issue such as a faulty keyboard. If you are unsure of the issue the machine is having, consult your supervisor for further assistance. When escalating issues, we will utilize the Rutgers Self Service Portal which will then create an incident in ServiceNow.

Consultant Steps
To report a maintenance issue in the labs that requires escalation you will need to report the issue using the Rutgers Self Service Portal.
On the page, you will select Report an Issue. This will take you to a form that will allow you to create a ticket.




Under the first field Help Desk, select the appropriate campus. If you do not change the Help Desk field, it will not be escalated correctly. The campus options include:
OIT Labs - Busch
OIT Labs - College Ave
OIT Labs - Cook/Douglass
OIT Labs - Livingston
The field displaying: Is this request for someone other than yourself? > No.
Within the Summary field you will put: Building name - Machine ID - the issue. An example of this layout is as follows: "Tillett - TIL-GAL-001 - Memory Issue"
In the field that states Please describe your issue, you will provide a detailed description of the issue. Include any symptoms (bad keyboard, bad mouse, bad USB port, etc.) and any steps you took to troubleshoot the issue.
Within the Alternate email section, enter the supervisor email for the appropriate campus. The supervisor email for each campus is as follows:
Livingston: tillett_lab@oit.rutgers.edu
College Avenue: cacc_lab@oit.rutgers.edu
Busch: arc_lab@oit.rutgers.edu
Cook/Douglass: loree_lab@oit.rutgers.edu
In the Callback number field, enter the supervisor's line phone number for the appropriate campus. The phone number for each campus is as follows:
Livingston: (848) 445-3215
College Avenue:
Academic Building: (848) 932-0319
Alex DLC: (848) 932-0315
Busch: (848) 445-2760
Cook/Douglass: (848) 932-8498
Submit the form when finished. If you are unsure if the form is complete, consult with a supervisor or full time staff member. A sample form is as follows:


KBB0010146Labs - Supervisor Steps to Escalate lab machines for device repair

" KB0017359 Labs Labs - Headsets for Patron Use "

The labs provide headsets for patron usage within the labs. This article outlines the necessary guidelines for student workers to follow regarding the use of headsets by patrons.

Logging and Tracking

When issuing or receiving headsets, student consultants must update the Headset & Adapter Loaning Tracking Sheet. It is important to log pertinent details is during the issuance and return of headsets. When issuing headsets, student consultants must record the date, time, patron name, and corresponding headset number. Upon the headset's return, consultants are required to note the precise time of return, if the patron ID was returned, and provide any pertinent comments if applicable. Before closing the labs, consultants should collect headsets from patrons to ensure all equipment is properly accounted for and to prevent loss or damage.

Collection of Collateral

To ensure the return of headsets, patron IDs will be collected as collateral. These IDs will be securely kept at the consultant station until the headset is returned.

Hygiene and Maintenance

Patrons are encouraged to use the provided covers on the headsets for hygiene purposes; however, they are not mandatory. Covers will be provided upon request. Following each use, it is imperative that student consultants clean the headsets meticulously using alcohol wipes, adhering to designated procedures.

Reporting Issues

Any issues with the headsets, such as damage or malfunction, should be reported to the supervisor immediately. The issues should also be reported within the tracking sheet within the comments section. Timely reporting allows for prompt maintenance or replacement of equipment, ensuring uninterrupted service for patrons.

" KB0015733 Labs Labs - Intel Unite Software "

Intel Unite is collaboration software that allows users to share material from their devices. This Intel Unite setup allows laptops and devices to connect to the host computer. It allows screen sharing among the computers in the Intel Unite session. It requires no special hardware and is compatible with all major software applications for Windows and MacOS. The hostnames for each room is as follows:

106F - til-bo1.nb-labs.rutgers.edu
106G - til-bo2.nb-labs.rutgers.edu

Instructions for Intel Unite are as follows:

To join Intel Unite on a laptop, download the client app by opening a browser and searching unite.rutgers.edu . To open the Intel Unite download page, users must be on the RUWireless Secure network.
Once installed, run the application and follow prompts on the screen.
Enter the code displayed on the upper right corner of the host screen to connect.
Once connect has been successful, the screensharing process will begin.

" KB0015622 Labs Labs - Network Troubleshooting "

Labs troubleshooting can be necessary for a variety of reasons. Some symptoms may include but are not limited to, the following: patrons unable to log into computers, not being able to access websites, black screen with PXE boot messages including "TCIF" loading.

To troubleshoot lab machines, follow the steps below:

Check the ethernet cable. Make sure both ends are connected to the computer and wall port. Try unplugging and replugging the wire.
Testing port and computer by swapping the working cable and connection from another computer. Testing another cable and port will narrow down the issue to the original port or the computer port that is the problem. If the test passes, then the computer port is working fine. If the test fails, the computer port is likely the issue.
Test the cables by replacing the cable. You can either replace the cable or remove the existing cable and plug it into the working port. This will eliminate the wire as the problem.
Once you determine the test results and do not have networking, please escalate using the Down Machine Form. When contacting, please include the tests you did and the results.

" KB0016545 Labs Labs - Operating the Instructional Microcomputing Lab Wall "

The computer labs have instructional microcomputing labs (IMLs) located in Allison Road Classroom (ARC), College Avenue Academic Building, Loree, and Tillett Hall. In ARC, the College Avenue Academic Building, and Tillett Hall the IMLs have a collapsible wall that can be used to combine two rooms into one larger room when needed. It is up to consultants to check the IML calendar and set up the rooms as needed for each reservation. Below are the videos for each IML with a collapsible wall:

Allison Road Classroom

College Avenue Academic Building

Tillett Hall



" KB0018936 Labs Labs - PaperCut Print Release Guide "

PaperCut Print Release

Patrons may need their print jobs manually released by a consultant if there is a physical problem with their RUID card or if their RUID card is too old. RUID cards have a chip in them that interfaces with the printer when tapped. If the card is damaged or was created before Rutgers started installing the chips, but they have the card physically with them, then we may release their print jobs. We are not able to release print jobs for patrons who do not have their RUID with them. If you are unsure about releasing a print job, consult a supervisor first.

To release a print job, utilize the following steps:

Open PaperCut and log in with your admin account. If you log in with your student account, you will not be able to release the print job
On the left side of the screen, select Printers > Jobs Pending Release to view active print jobs




Search for the patron's print job by looking for their NetID under the user column
Select Print on the right side of the screen to force the print job through




Select one of the printers from the provided list of available printers to print the job. Once the job is sent, it will print immediately, so do not send it to a printer that is actively in use to avoid confusion



" KB0016196 Labs Labs - Plotter maintenance and troubleshooting - HP DesignJet T730 "

The HP DesignJet T730 printers can be found on the Busch and Cook/Douglass campuses.

Please refer to the other guide for maintenance and troubleshooting for the RICOH IM CW2200 plotter printer on the College Avenue campus.

The OIT plotters on Busch and Cook/Douglass are similar in the basics to other lab printers, with a few key differences outlined below:

Documentation for how to print to the plotter can be found in the Poster printing in the OIT computing labs guide.
The major process difference is that once users choose the proper queue (ARC Computing Center: arc_plotter_q, Loree Computing Center: lor_plotter_q), they cannot swipe their cards to release their print jobs.
Instead, they will talk to a consultant to release their jobs. Consultants will release the job through Papercut and charge the user for the indicated amount.
Each plotter has a piece of paper or laminate in the single-page feeder on the back right side of the plotter. This must be done so that the plotter can print from large-format paper.

As with regular printing, problems with print jobs should be resolved with a free reprint whenever possible. If it won't fix the issue, follow the standard procedure to request a printing credit.

Please talk to your local supervisor staff for the location of paper and toner supplies.

Loading a new roll of paper

Type of Paper: Roll HP Bright White Inkjet Paper

Open the roll cover.
Remove the spindle from the printer.

WARNING! Do not insert your fingers into the spindle supports during the removal process.
The spindle has a stop at each end to keep the roll in position. The blue stop can be removed to mount a new roll; it slides along the spindle to hold rolls of different widths. Remove the blue paper stop from the end of the spindle.




If the roll is long, rest the spindle horizontally on a table and load the roll on the table.
Slide the new roll onto the spindle. Make sure the paper type is oriented as shown. If it is not, remove the roll, turn it 180 degrees, and slide it back onto the spindle. There are labels on the spindle showing the correct orientation.




Roll the paper into the printer until you feel resistance and the paper flexes slightly. When the printer detects the paper, it beeps and feeds in the paper automatically.




The front panel prompts you to select the paper category and type.




Touch More paper types if you do not see your paper type in the front panel.
The printer checks the alignment and measures the width. If the roll is not correctly aligned, follow the instructions on the front-panel display.
Close the roll cover.
Touch OK when ready.
Replacing Ink
Make sure the printer is turned on.
Open the ink cartridge cover on the rear right-hand side of the printer.
Remove the ink cartridge.
Insert the new ink cartridge. Make sure you insert the ink cartridge into the slot with the same colored letter as the cartridge you are installing.
Close the ink cartridge cover.







Troubleshooting paper issues

There are various reasons why you may have issues loading the paper.

Ensure that no paper is already loaded.
Ensure the paper is far enough inside the printer; you should feel the printer grab the paper.
Do not attempt to straighten the paper during the alignment process, unless instructed by the front-panel display. The printer automatically attempts to straighten the paper.
The paper may be crumpled, warped, or have irregular edges.

Loading a roll of paper can fail for several reasons.

Check the leading edge of the paper: if it is not straight or clean, it should be trimmed. Remove the initial 20 mm (1 in) from the roll and try again. This may be necessary even with a new roll of paper.
Check that the roll ends are tight against the spindle ends.
Check that the spindle is correctly inserted.
Check that the output tray is closed. The roll will not load when it is open.
Check that the paper is correctly loaded on the spindle and loaded over the roll towards you.
Check that all roll end plugs have been removed.
Check that the paper is wound tightly on the roll.
Do not touch the roll or paper during the alignment process.
If the paper has not been inserted straight, follow the instructions on the front panel.
If you want to start the load process again, cancel the process on the front panel and rewind the roll from the end of the spindle until the edge is removed from the printer.

NOTE: The printer cannot load the paper if the roll has become loose around the core.

Paper error loading messages

Front-panel message:

Paper loaded with too much skew
Suggested action: During the paper load process, the printer detected that the paper had too much skew. Touch OK to unload the roll automatically, then restart the process.
Paper not detected
Suggested action: During the paper load process, the printer did not detect any paper. Ensure the paper is inserted fully and is not transparent.
The paper is too far from the lateral edge
Suggested action: Reload the cut sheet, aligning the right edge against the black stop on the spindle.
Paper load failed. Paper width is smaller than the minimum size supported by the selected paper source.
Suggested action: Cut sheets smaller than ISO A3 must be loaded using the multi-sheet tray.
Sheet too big
Suggested action: During the load process, the printer has detected that the sheet of paper is either too wide or too long to be loaded correctly.
Sheet too small
Suggested action: During the load process, the printer detected that the sheet of paper is too narrow or too short to be loaded in the printer.
Paper jams

You usually see a message about a paper jam in the front-panel display when a paper jam occurs. Be sure to remove all paper pieces and fragments from the printer.

Open the roll cover.
Open the top window.


Remove any jammed paper you can lift from the printer's top.
Cut the paper if needed




Try to move the printhead carriage out of the way.




Carefully remove any jammed paper you can lift from the printer's top.

 


Remove any of the jammed paper from the top window.
Close the top window.




Load the paper roll again.
Close the roll cover.

" KB0018477 Labs Labs - Plotter maintenance and troubleshooting - RICOH IM CW2200 "

The RICOH IM CW2200 plotter printer can be found at the College Ave Computer Center Lab in the Academic Building on College Avenue.

Please refer to the other guide for maintenance and troubleshooting for the HP DesignJet T730 plotter printers on the Busch and Cook/Douglass campuses.

The OIT plotter on the College Avenue campus is similar in the basics to other lab printers, with a few key differences outlined below:

Directions on how patrons can print to the RICOH plotter can be found in the Poster printing in the OIT computing labs guide, as the process is similar to the other plotter printers on campus.
The major process difference is that once users choose the proper queue (ab-gal_plotter-q), they cannot swipe their cards to release their print jobs. Instead, they will talk to a consultant to release their jobs. Consultants will release the job through Papercut and charge the user for the indicated amount.

As with regular printing, problems with print jobs should be resolved with a free reprint whenever possible. If it won't fix the issue, follow the standard procedure to request a printing credit.

Please talk to your local supervisory staff for the location of paper and toner supplies.

Table of Contents
Loading a new roll of paper
Removing the spool and paper roll
Removing the spool from the paper roll
Inserting the spool into the paper roll
Loading the spool and paper roll into the printer
To make another cut
Adding ink
How to replace the ink cartridge
Testing the print quality
Print nozzle check pattern
Clean print heads
Flush print heads
How to use the home screen
Paper input info widget
Machine information
System message
Check status
Printing troubleshooting
Loading a new roll of paper

Type of Paper: HP Universal Bond Paper (Q1397A)

Removing the spool and paper roll
Lift the paper cover until it clicks.




Remove the bar under the paper roll cover (Bar A) and hang it in front of the catch basket.




Press the rewind button on the right side of the spool location for one second or more.




After you release the button, the paper is rewound automatically.
If the paper is not rewound, press the button again.
If no paper roll is loaded, insert the spool into the paper roll.
Hold the left and right flanges of the spool firmly, and then lift and remove the spool.
Important: When removing paper rolls from the paper input locations, lift the flanges on either side of the paper roll before removing them. Do not lift one side only. This could damage the machine.




Removing the spool from the paper roll
Place the spool on a flat surface.
Raise the lock lever on the left flange of the spool.
Remove the left flange from the spool.
Slide out and remove the right flange and spool from the paper roll or paper tube.
Inserting the spool into the paper roll
Insert the spool into the paper roll for replacement. Ensure that the paper is oriented so that it unrolls from and towards the opposite side facing you and unrolls from the bottom, not the top of the roll (see picture below).




Place the paper roll horizontally, and then slowly and gently insert the right flange and spool into the paper roll from its right until the flange touches the roll paper.
Important: Do not insert the spool into the paper roll while standing upright/vertically. Doing so can damage the flange.




Insert the left flange into the spool slowly and gently so as not to damage it, and then lower the lock lever on the left flange once it's inserted all the way in.
Important: Two people are required to assist with this step. This way, one person can steady the right end of the flange while the other inserts the left.
Loading the spool and paper roll into the printer
Hold both flanges and place the paper roll on the paper input location.
Place the spool so the black shutter covers its right edge.




Lift Bar A and hook it back into place.




Lower the paper cover.




When a message appears that confirms that bar A has returned to the correct position, press Exit.
Confirm that the paper type and thickness of the paper you loaded are the same as those displayed on the screen. If the paper type and thickness are different from those shown, press Change Settings. Select the correct paper type and thickness you want to use, and then press OK.
If you want to cut the edge of the paper, press Cut End of Paper, and then select Yes.




Press Start Feed. If the paper loading settings screen does not appear, open and close the paper input location cover. If the paper roll is not fed correctly and it is rewound, remove the paper roll and set it up again.
Ensure that the size of the paper roll you loaded is correctly displayed and that Ready appears on the Printer screen.
To make another cut

Sometimes, after loading the paper, an extra cut is needed to have a clean edge on the paper. The cut paper function cuts a paper roll at the specified length from the paper's leading edge.

From the Home screen, go to Settings.
On the right, select Maintenance > Cut Paper.
Select the paper input location and length to cut the paper, then press Start.
When you select Paper Input Location in Use, the cutting length is set to Short.
Press Close to close the dialog box.

To help determine how much paper needs to be cut for a clean edge, you can use a pen or pencil to mark the defective area to help make it more visible. Then, you can repeat cuts until the marked area has been removed.

Adding ink

The following messages may appear depending on the amount of ink.

When the Check Print Cartridge replacement appears, approximately 35% of the original amount of ink remains in the print cartridge.
When Printing is not possible even if only one cartridge is depleted appears, approximately 20% of the original amount of ink remains in the print cartridge.
When No ink appears, replace the corresponding color print cartridges.
See the animation on the machine's control panel for replacing the print cartridge.

Important things to remember when handling printer cartridges:

Replace the print cartridge after the message prompting replacement is displayed on the control panel.
Do not turn off the power to the machine when replacing the print cartridge. If you turn off the power when replacing the print cartridge, the specified settings are canceled, and printing will not resume afterwards.
Keep the ink horizontal when storing it.
After removing the print cartridge from the machine, please do not shake it while its opening faces downward. The remaining ink may spill out.
Do not pull out and put back the print cartridge repeatedly. The remaining ink may leak.
Do not touch the print cartridges' IC (integrated circuit) chip.
Do not open the cartridge cover other than when replacing the print cartridges. Doing so may result in misfeeds.
If, after replacing the print cartridge, the add ink messages continue to appear, turn off the machine's power, and then turn it back on again.
Push in the print cartridge until the lever clicks. If it does not click into place, ink may leak inside the machine.




How to replace the ink cartridge
Check the screen to see which print cartridge needs to be replaced.
If you have turned off the screen, on the Machine Status tab, press Check Status > Check.
Add ink by following the procedure shown in the animation.




Testing the print quality

The print quality should be tested after each time the ink is changed. Weekly print testing will be conducted by a supervisor. It may need to be tested more frequently depending on usage. The primary print quality test method will be the print nozzle check pattern. If this test comes back clean, then no further action is required.


If there are any issues with the print nozzle check pattern, please follow the troubleshooting steps below:

Print the nozzle check pattern.
Clean the print heads if the pattern is patchy, then print the test pattern and check the result.
Do not use the machine for at least 10 minutes, then print the test pattern again and check the result.
Clean the print heads, and then print the test pattern. Then, clean and print a second time, then check the result.
If the pattern is still patchy, flush the print heads, then print the test pattern again and check the result.
Important: Please note that flushing the print heads consumes a very large amount of ink. Perform this function only when necessary.
Do not use the machine for at least 10 minutes, then print the test pattern again and check the result.
This should resolve the problem. If the test pattern is still patchy, contact your service representative.

Additionally, an error will occur and print quality testing cannot continue if:

There is a misfeed.
One of the machine's covers is open.
The machine is performing maintenance operations.
The machine has run out of ink.
The machine has run out of paper.
The ink collector unit is full.
Print nozzle check pattern

Use this action to print the test pattern to check for non-firing nozzles. This maintenance task should be conducted after each time the ink is changed, as well as weekly by a supervisor to keep the print nozzles functioning well.

From the Home screen, go to Settings.
On the right, select Maintenance > Print Nozzle Check Pattern.
Select the paper input location from which you want to print the test pattern, then press OK.
Press Exit to close the dialog box.
Check the print results of the test pattern:
Normal print results:




If a nozzle is not firing:




Interpret the results. For example, if a print result indicates that the test pattern of K1 is not firing, select the option for Black (K1) when performing the Clean Print-heads action to reactivate the nozzle.
Clean print heads

Use this function to clean the print heads if a specific color is not printing or prints out unclearly.

From the Home screen, go to Settings.
On the right, select Maintenance > Clean Print-heads.
Select the color of the head you want to clean, and then press OK > Start.
Press Exit to close the dialog box.
Check the print results of the cleaning by printing the nozzle check pattern.
Important: Cleaning the print-heads should only be done twice per print-head before a flush is warranted.
Flush print heads

Use this function to clean the print heads far more thoroughly. It consumes much more ink than head cleaning. Use this function only if repeated head cleaning fails to reactivate a mis- or non-firing nozzle.

From the Home screen, go to Settings.
On the right, select Maintenance > Flush Print-heads.
Select the color of the head you want to flush, and press OK > Start.
Press Exit to close the dialog box.
Check the print results of the flush by printing the nozzle check pattern.
Important: If flushing the nozzle did not work to correct the issue, you should not perform any more print quality tests. If this is the case, contact RICOH support.
How to use the home screen

Press the blue Home icon at the bottom center to display the Home screen, on which icons for each function are shown.







Paper input info widget

This widget shows the status of each paper tray. The screenshot below shows when the system recognized that both trays are filled with paper. If only one tray has a spool loaded, that is reflected in the Paper Input Info section. Select the option for Paper Settings to make any adjustments to the paper input settings, such as size or quality of the paper.







Machine information

On the Home page, there is a graphical representation of the levels of each ink color in the printer. When this option is selected, you are redirected to the Machine Information page for additional information.







Other information that can be found on this menu includes:

Remaining amount of ink or paper, and error information, such as paper jams
Usage status of the hard disk or memory
IP address of this machine
Name of consumables and the telephone number for ordering
System message

This section will be updated with any error messages or alerts. Depending on the error, it may show an animation with additional information on resolving the issue. Messages may also appear on the top right-hand side of the Control Panel. Check the status and fix the problem accordingly.

Check status

If there is a problem, such as a paper jam, the Check Status indicator lights up or flashes along with a message displayed on the screen. Press Check Status to check the status of the machine or application, and resolve the problem accordingly.







Press Check Status on the Home screen to confirm the following items: Machine's status

Statuses of the error and network
Operational status of each function
Status of a running job
Job history
Printing troubleshooting

A misfeed can happen for various reasons, such as the paper roll being misaligned or the sensors not detecting correctly. When this happens, the Control Panel will display a message indicating specific troubleshooting steps, depending on the type of issue. Please ensure you follow all messages, including closing the basket when instructed.

You may want to do a test cut if the paper is misfeeding due to an uneven edge on the paper roll. Please clear all residue from the tape so the paper is clean and smooth without any wrinkles or tears. You may additionally need to manually feed the paper off the roll into the catch area. Please be careful when taking this action so as not to touch the sensors inside the machine.

Important: If the error message Paper Misfeed is displayed, do not touch the encoder sheet, the ink tubes, the metal shaft, or the sensors inside the machine when removing misfed paper. Touching these parts may result in loss of print quality or machine failure.







Encoder sheet

Ink tubes

Metal shaft

Sensors

Important things to note about troubleshooting printing issues:

When clearing misfeeds, do not turn off the power. If you do, your printer settings will be lost.
Do not turn off the power to the machine when removing the jammed paper. If you turn off the power, the specified settings values are reset.
Only perform the operation described in the animated illustration. Failure to do so may degrade the print quality or cause a malfunction.
If the error message remains displayed even after you remove misfed paper, fully open the front cover, and then close it.
When removing jammed paper, you can touch only those areas explicitly indicated in the manual.
To prevent paper misfeeds, do not leave any torn scraps of paper inside the machine.
Do not load paper immediately after you remove misfed paper from the paper bypass location. Close the front cover after removing the paper, and wait until the Please wait message disappears from the screen before loading paper into the paper bypass location again.
Wrap the paper tightly around the paper core so there is no gap between the paper and the core. If there is a gap between them, the paper holder may spin while the paper roll remains still, which may cause a paper jam.



" KB0015686 Labs Labs - Print Balance Adjustments "

When to request a print balance adjustment

The Labs Print Balance Adjustment form is used if a print release of the patron's job will not address the patron's issue. Balance Adjustment will not be made if a patron cannot wait for their printout(s).

Consultant Steps
To submit a balance adjustment request you will need to use the Rutgers Self Service Portal.
On the page, you will select Report an Issue. This will take you to a form allowing you to create an incident.




Under the first field Help Desk, select Labs Print Balance Adjustment.




Please select Yes, for the field displaying Is this request for someone other than yourself? And provide the NetID of the user requesting the balance adjustment.
Within the Summary field you will provide the lab location, printer name and the user's NetID (Lab - PrinterName- NetID).
In the field that states Please describe your issue, please provide the following information:
User's NetID
Date
Time
Printer Name
Cost
Document name
A detailed account of user's printing issue
Steps taken to resolve the issue
Confirmation if a reprint was offered
Within the Alternate email section, enter the supervisor email for the appropriate campus. The supervisor email for each campus is as follows:
Livingston: tillett_lab@oit.rutgers.edu
College Avenue: cacc_lab@oit.rutgers.edu
Busch: arc_lab@oit.rutgers.edu
Cook/Douglass: loree_lab@oit.rutgers.edu
In the Callback number field, enter the supervisor's line phone number for the appropriate campus. The phone number for each campus is as follows:
Livingston: (848) 445-3215
College Avenue:
Academic Building: (848) 932-0319
Alex DLC: (848) 932-0315
Busch: (848) 445-2760
Cook/Douglass: (848) 932-8498
Submit the form when finished. If you are unsure if the form is complete, consult with a supervisor or full time staff member.

" KB0013787 Labs Labs - Reporting Incidents to NetOps for Computer Labs using ServiceNow "

Creating a new incident
Create a new incident in ServiceNow.
Fill in the following fields:

For the Caller field, enter (your own) name or NetID.
In the Callback phone number field, put the supervisor office phone number (for the campus with the issue).
In Service Offering, put Computer Labs.
Business service should autofill to Desktop and Mobile Device Support.
Category should autofill to Desktop and Mobile Computing.
The Ticket Type will be Incident.
For Impact and Urgency, see the list below. Under no circumstances should High be used for either.
The Assignment group will be ESD NB Lab Technicians.
In the Short Description, put a short title of the incident, with the appropriate location tag (listed below) in front of it:
BCC Labs
CACC Labs
CDCC Labs
LCC Labs
All NB Labs (If the issue is relevant to all New Brunswick Labs)
Example: "[CDCC Labs] Classroom-wide machine outage"
In the Description, include the initial details of the incident.
For the Watch list, add the appropriate campus lab mailing list by select the lock icon > add the mailing list > add email address.
Click Submit in the top right corner of the page once all fields are entered correctly.
Working on an incident

While an incident is being worked on, there may be times when a supervisor would need to add on to an existing ticket. Do so by searching for the incident number for the ticket and adding to the Work Notes field for any additional information.

Additionally, screenshots and files can be attached to the ticket by clicking on the paperclip icon in the top right corner of the ticket called Manage Attachments and selecting the file to upload to the ticket.

NetOps should resolve any open tickets so supervisors will not have to resolve any tickets.

Looking up open incidents

To look up all open incidents assigned to NetOps, view this ServiceNow link..

To manually set up this search, in Incidents, set the filter to be:

Active is true.
Assignment group is ESD NB Lab Technicians.
Impact and Urgency
Use this guide to determine the Impact and Urgency fields of an incident:
Impact
Low

Machine down
Non-Hardware related Printer outage (hardware issues go to ICP or Ricoh)
Software issue (licensing, security certificate, keyserver, etc)
Scanner issue
Off-line computers due to facility issue (notify Netops via slack and email netops_labs@email.rutgers.edu, no incident needed)
Info display TV out
Classroom-wide machine outage
Instructor machine outage
Projector/classroom display out
Software issue for a class (licensing, security certificate, keyserver, etc)
Software issue on a specific platform (MacOS or Windows) in an entire lab
Lab wide computer outage (not facility related ex-can t log in due to RAD or network issue)
Staff machine outage
Medium

Campus-wide Papercut outage
Campus-wide machine or network outage
Urgency
Low

Machine down
Non-Hardware related Printer outage (hardware issues go to ICP or Ricoh)
Software issue (licensing, security certificate, keyserver, etc)
Scanner issue
Off-line computers due to facility issue (notify Netops)
Info display TV out
Staff machine outage
Medium

Projector/classroom display out
Papercut not working on your campus
Campus-wide Papercut outage
Software issue for a class (licensing, security certificate, keyserver, etc)
Campus-wide network outage
Lab wide computer outage (not facility related ex-can t log in due to RAD or network issue)
If you encounter a scenario that does not fall under the list above, please consult your manager for more guidance. Under no circumstance should you use High for either Impact or Urgency.

" KB0018913 Labs Labs - Reservation Room Active Check Procedure "

Table of Contents
General Check-In Procedure
Active Check Guidelines
Reservable Rooms at the Tillett Computing Center
Reservable Rooms at the Alexander Library Digital Learning Commons (DLC)
General Check-In Procedure

When checking a patron into a room, conduct an active inspection to ensure that everything is operational and in proper condition at the start of their reservation. This process helps identify when incidents or issues occur within the room.

During the inspection, complete the following steps:

If the room had a prior reservation, verify that the previous occupants have left and that the room is empty.
Turn on the room lights.
Inspect the room for any trash, spills, or other cleanliness issues.
Confirm that all furniture assigned to the room is present and undamaged.
Verify that any Rutgers-owned devices in the room are powered on and functioning properly.
Active Check Guidelines

An active check must be completed each time a patron is checked into or out of a room.

Reservable Rooms at the Tillett Computing Center
Breakout Room 106G

During each active check:

Clean the whiteboards.
Ensure all 10 chairs are present, properly arranged, and pushed in.
Check the room for any spills, trash, damage, or other maintenance concerns.
Verify that the TV is powered on and functioning properly.




Breakout Room 106F

During each active check:

Clean the whiteboards.
Ensure all 10 chairs are present, properly arranged, and pushed in.
Check the room for any spills, trash, damage, or other maintenance concerns.
Verify that the TV is powered on and functioning properly.




Reservable Rooms at the Alexander Library Digital Learning Commons (DLC)
Audio Booth Room 130

During each active check:

Check the room for any spills, trash, damage, or other maintenance concerns.
Verify that the audio mixer is powered on and functioning properly.
Ensure that all four microphones are present, undamaged, and properly connected.
Confirm that all three chairs are present and in the room.
Log in to the computer to verify that it is operational and connected to the internet.
If troubleshooting is required, refer to the Audio Booth Troubleshooting Guide.




AV One Button Room (Rooms 132 and 133)

During each active check:

Check the room for any spills, trash, damage, or other maintenance concerns.




Verify that the One Button Studio system is plugged in and functioning properly. The One Button Studio application should be displayed on the monitor, as shown in the image below.




Ensure that both studio lights are plugged in and functioning properly. The lights should turn on automatically after the flash drive is inserted. Each room contains two studio lights.




Verify that the ceiling-mounted microphone is plugged in and functioning properly. Each room contains one microphone.




Conference Room 128G

During each active check:

Check the room for any spills, trash, damage, or other maintenance concerns.
Ensure that all 12 chairs are present and pushed in around the conference table.




Verify that the TV is powered on, set to HDMI 3, and displaying the home screen.
Inform the patron that they must not touch any of the cables behind the TV.




Ensure that the conference room tablet is powered on and functioning properly.
Explain to the patron that both the tablet on the table and the tablet mounted on the wall can be used to control and interact with the TV.




Verify that the connection ports located in the center of the conference table are secure and functioning properly.
Explain to the patron that they can connect their device to the TV using these connection ports.




Ensure that the conference room instruction sheet is present on the table.
Make sure the patron is aware of its location and purpose.
Verify that the TV remote is present on the table and remind the patron that it must remain in the room at all times





" KB0015351 Labs Labs - Toner Changes "

When to change toner

There are several instances when a toner change will be necessary. Toner change can occur when printouts are light/streaking or if toner is leaking out of the cartridge. Typically the printer will tell you that the toner is empty with the message "Replace Toner." If the toner is not affecting print quality, such as streaking or leaking, we do not change toners until it is empty; therefore, double-check the printer's toner levels to ensure it is empty.

If you decide to change toner, notify a supervisor that you are changing toner.

Checking toner levels & page count

In order to check toner levels & page counts, you will follow the steps below:

Navigate to Icinga. When logging in, log in with your NetID-adm account.
Select Problems > Service Grid once you are logged in.
Using the filter icon you will select Host Campus and then the appropriate campus. The campuses are listed below

Cook/Douglass you will enter the letter "D"
Livingston you will enter the letter "L"
College Avenue you will enter the letter "C"
Busch you will enter the letter "B"
Then select the appropriate printer. Once selected you will see Printer Toner Levels which will indicate what level the toner is at & Paper Pagecount will display the page count of the printer.
Toner Change Form

In the event, toner will need to be changed you will need to fill out the Toner Change Form for each campus.

Please note that Busch and Cook/Douglass does not have a toner tracker due to switching to Ricoh printers. As the Labs continue to transition to Ricoh printers, we will not use the toner change form, however until the printer change occurs, the listed campuses will continue to track toner.

The appropriate form for each campus is as follows:

Livingston
College Avenue
Changing Toner

In order to change toner, please follow the general steps below:

Wait until the printer gives an error that says, "Replace Toner" or "Empty Toner".
Printers that give the error "Low toner" will continue printing.
Open the Toner Change Form for the appropriate campus and get the page-count information of the printer.
Open the new toner kit, take out the new toner, an empty waste toner, and a plastic bag.
Get a blank toner label from the appropriate location (consultant station or from a supervisor) and put it on the new toner. Fill in the "In" information.
Take out the old toner and the old waste toner.
Fill in the "Out" information on the old toner. It will be the same as the "In" information on the new toner.
Place the old toner in the plastic bag and then in the box that you took the new toner out of. After this, throw away the waste toner.
Fill out the toner change form with the information from both labels.
Place the new toner and empty waste toner in the printer.
Seal the box and write "used" all over it and place it in the appropriate area for the campus. If you are unsure, please reach out to a supervisor.

Each printer type will have a video displaying how to change the toner. If you are unsure which kind of printer you are handling, reach out to a supervisor.

Plotter Printer
Further information regarding Plotter maintenance and troubleshooting can be found in the Plotter Printer troubleshooting Knowledge Article.





Color Ricoh Printers





Black and White Ricoh Printers
Kyocera FS-9530DN
Kyocera FS-C5400DN
Kyocera P3060DN
Kyocera P7040CDN

" KB0014259 Labs Labs - Tools USB Descriptions "

Each lab location has several USB thumb drives with tools for various purposes. Included on each is a suite of software and documents that can be useful, including:

Antivirus - Self-explanatory for the most part, just antivirus installers. There are also specific virus killers for TDSS and ZeroAccess. NPE is a general anti-rootkit.
Browsers - Portable browsers if the original browsers on the target device are compromised, and you need to access the internet. Not typically used.
Documentation - Some policy documentation, CIRT & waiver handouts, and other instructions for removing specific infections. Read these over.
Logs - Empty, useful to copy CIRT logs into if no internet access
NIC Drivers - Drivers for certain models of NIC, the current NetGear NIC is not included
Removal Tool Supplements - More specific infection removers
RUWireless Secure - All of the secure installers and certificates for manual setup
Supplementary - Other useful utilities, some repetitions
CCleaner - Cleans registry, temp files, and other temp files
CPU Z - Gets info about CPU hardware
Default File Extensions - Used to reset extensions to the standard programs
Assorted targeted virus removal tools
Various AV tools
Misc network analysis tools
Troubleshooting Tools
HijackThis - Analyzes general vulnerable programs
Wireshark - Packet monitor
Putty - SSH installer
Inssider - Signal strength analysis

If you expect to need a specific tool, you are free to upload it onto the drive before using it. Check the USB before going out to make sure it is still a tools USB and has not been converted by someone else into other media.

" KB0013972 Labs "Labs - Troubleshooting ""Login is Invalid"" Error When Scanning RUID on the Card Reader" "

What could be the issue?

On rare occasions, when a patron scans their RUID at the card reader to print, they could receive a "Login is invalid" error message, preventing printing.

There are three possibilities for why this error occurs:

The user's card is damaged and therefore, the encoded data from their card no longer matches the 9 or 15 digit identifier associated with their NetID
The backend system that holds NetID/RCN information has not been correctly updated
There is another issue with the user's account that we are unaware of, but PaperCut Support may have more info
How Can I Diagnose The Issue?
Verify Rutgers ID Card Encoded String

Here is an overview of how to troubleshoot issues where one or more users are not able to authenticate via swipe at a print release station or MFP:

Connect card reader to a Mac or Windows computer. Both operating systems should automatically recognize it as a keyboard device
Open an app like Notepad in Windows, or TextEdit in Mac OS
Have the patron swipe/wave their card, and the encoded data should appear in the text window

The data returned should be in one of two formats:

Likely format: a 15 digit number. This could be in between start and end characters ( ; and ? ), or just the 15 digit number

Example: ;123456789012345? , or 123456789012345
There could still be some older cards in use that will display a 9 digit number, with some ending control characters

Example: ;123456789=1234?

Copy either the 15 digit number from the first instance, or the 9 digit number in the second instance, and enter it in the Quick Find search section of the "User List" page in the PaperCut admin web interface. If the number is correct, the patron's NetID/name should be returned:

If the information returned from the swipe doesn't match the two formats listed above, the likely root cause is an issue with the patron's ID card, and they should have it replaced.

Verify Back End NetID/RCN Information

If the data encoded on the card does match either of the card formats above, but the user cannot authenticate and/or the quick search test fails, it's possible that the backend system that holds NetID/RCN information has not been correctly updated. The updates to the backend card system usually happen on a regular basis, so an option is to have the patron wait 15 to 20 minutes and try swiping again. If the above tests fail again after waiting 15-20 minutes, then the patron will need to have their card replaced or re-encoded to rectify the issue.

Escalating to NetOPS

If the issue cannot be resolved after completing the troubleshooting steps above, escalate to NetOps for further investigation.

Create an incident by following the Reporting Incidents to NetOps for Computer Labs using ServiceNow knowledge article.

Contact PaperCut Support

If these tests are inconclusive, the PaperCut support group can parse the PaperCut log files for possible clues. The following information should be collected and sent to the PaperCut support group at papercut_support@oit.rutgers.edu:

The patron s name and NetID
Which release station(s)/MFP(s) the patron swiped at
Approximate date/time(s) of the swipe attempts


" KB0018092 Labs Labs - USB-C to HDMI Adapters for Bookable IML Rooms "

The labs provide USB-C to HDMI adapters for use during bookings. Currently, the adapters are available at College Avenue and Livingston. This article outlines the necessary guidelines for student workers to follow regarding using these adapters.

Logging and Tracking

When issuing or receiving USB-C to HDMI adapters, student consultants must update the Headset & Adapter Loaning Tracking Sheet. Logging of pertinent details is imperative during the issuance and return of adapters. When issuing adapters, student consultants must diligently record the date, time, patron name, and corresponding adapter number. Upon the adapter's return, consultants must note the precise time of return and whether a patron ID was collected, as well as provide any relevant comments if applicable. Before closing the IML rooms, consultants should collect adapters from patrons to ensure all equipment is properly accounted for and to prevent loss or damage.

Collection of Collateral

Patron IDs will be collected as collateral to ensure the return of USB-C to HDMI adapters. These IDs will be securely kept at the consultant station until the adapter is returned.

Hygiene and Maintenance

Patrons are encouraged to handle the adapters with care; however, there are no specific hygiene requirements for the adapters themselves. Following each use, student consultants must inspect the adapters for any visible damage or wear. Any issues should be reported immediately.

Reporting Issues

Any issues with the adapters, such as damage or malfunction, should be reported to the supervisor immediately. The issues should also be documented within the tracking sheet in the comments section. Timely reporting allows for prompt maintenance or replacement of equipment, ensuring uninterrupted service for patrons using the IML rooms.

" KB0014209 LMS LMS - Google Classroom "

What is Google Classroom?

Google Classroom is available to anyone with an active ScarletMail account. It is a free suite of productivity tools, including Gmail, Drive, and Docs. Classroom is designed to help teachers create and collect assignments virtually, including time-saving features like the ability to automatically make a copy of a Google Document for each student. It also creates Drive folders for each assignment and for each student to help keep documents organized. Students can track what's due on the Assignments page and begin working with just a click. Teachers can quickly see who has or hasn't completed the work, and provide direct feedback and grades from within Classroom. To use Google Classroom, log into your ScarletMail Account and go to Google Classroom.

How does someone get Teacher Access for Google Classroom?

If you are a Faculty or Staff member at the University and require Teacher Access to Google Classroom, there are two necessary steps:

Log into your ScarletMail Account and go to Google Classroom. Once there, click on I'm a Teacher under the text Get Started Using Google Classroom.
Next go to this form and fill it out.

Once both of these steps have been done, your request will be reviewed and processed within 1 to 2 business days.

" KB0014211 Local IT Local IT - CS Research/SOE-Research/LAWN "

CS-Research

CS-Research is a research project of the Laboratory for Computer Science Research (LSCR). It is available at the following buildings, according to the computer science website:

Computer Science Professors and laboratories in the CoRE building (floors 1,2,3,4) and the Hill Center (floors 2,3,4)

Engineering A, B, C, and D wing
CAIT Building
Fiber Optics
Ceramics
Electrical Engineering
RutCor
Civil Engineering Modular
Biomedical Engineering

The listed buildings also have no RUWireless available. If a user has trouble connecting to LAWN in any of the bolded buildings, refer to the ECS Team.

Blacklisted on CS-Research

If a caller says that he or she is blacklisted on CS-Research, ask them to look for an email stating why they were blacklisted. They should follow the instructions on that email or refer them to the Rutgers CS blacklist guide. If you get (or help with) calls about being blacklisted on CS-Research, ask the caller to look for an email telling them why they were blacklisted and to follow the instructions there. Refer any further questions by users or users who walk into HD to the LSCR, as CS-Research is managed by that department.

Physics-LAWN

The Physics Department also maintains its own wireless network Physics-LAWN (Local Area Wireless Network). Wireless access is available for authorized users in many areas of the Physics Department. Please note that this system is intended primarily for use by members of the Department of Physics and Astronomy and their visitors. The system is not generally available for use by Rutgers undergraduates, except for those registered in selected courses.

More information can be found at the Physics Wireless page.

" KB0018381 Local IT Local IT - Google GenAI - Rutgers Business School "

GenAI is no longer available to the Rutgers Business School, effective Fall 2025. Rutgers Business users are directed to use the University's AI platforms, such as Gemini or Copilot.

" KB0014202 Local IT Local IT - iLabs "

What are iLabs?

The iLabs are Linux-based computer systems used by the Rutgers Computer Science department to complete assignments and work on projects. These machines are located in the three rooms on the second floor of Hill Center: Command Center, CAVE, and Meltdown.

Handling iLab Incidents

Rutgers OIT does not officially support iLab machines. Feel free to assist the user with any information provided in this knowledge article; however, for any further troubleshooting, please redirect the user to the Computer Science IT department. In addition, do not assist users with compilation or runtime errors. These are things that they should ask their professors or classmates.

Logging in to the iLabs

The iLabs use different credentials from CAS. The user must be a CS student, have an active NetID, and must be registered through the activation page.

Using the iLabs

There are three ways to use the iLabs. Go to one of the rooms mentioned above and use the machines directly (except for iLab1-3 and iLabU1-4), via SSH, or via X2Go.

X2Go

This is similar to TeamViewer. The user can log in to the iLabs using this, and it is generally recommended for beginners. X2Go provides a desktop GUI, making it easy to navigate. Coding is done on the iLab when using this, but since it is similar to TeamViewer, it can be used from the user s machine to make it seem like they are coding on their own computers.

Setup instructions can be found on the Computer Science website.

SSH

Also known as Secure Shell. SSH is a protocol for remotely accessing another computer. It is a good way to use the iLabs if the user is familiar with the terminal. Just like X2Go, when the user is coding, the code is written and saved on the iLab, but the user writes it on their own machines.

There are many SSH clients available (Git Bash, PuTTY, MobaXterm, etc.). This document will go over MobaXterm, as it supports X11Forwarding (explained in How To Hand-in Assignments ).

Download and Install MobaXterm. The version doesn t matter as long as it is for the correct OS (if it is the portable version, installation is not required).
Run MobaXterm, then click the Session icon in the top-left corner.
A new window will pop up. Click on SSH.
The remote host will be any iLab hostname (see the iLab Hosts/Status section of this document).
Make sure that " Specify username is checked. Enter the user s NetID in the textbox.
Port should be 22 (SSH is, by default, on port 22).
Press OK. The terminal will pop up afterwards, prompting for the password.
Have the user enter their CS password. The password will not show at all when typing, including the * usually seen on website logins.
MobaXterm will prompt to save the password (for auto login). For convenience, save the password.
The user can now use the iLab.
Using their Own Machine

If the user is adamant about using their own machine, have them install a Linux VM or dual-boot Linux. The user should still test their code on the iLabs. It is highly recommended that the user test their code on the iLabs.

They can test their code by uploading it to Google Drive, downloading it to the iLabs, then compiling and running it using one of the methods above (X2Go, SSH, or directly using the machines in the CAVE, Command Center, or Meltdown).

Handing in Assignments
MobaXTerm

If the user is using MobaXterm, then they can forward the iLab s version of an application to their machine.

Run the command: google-chrome <website url>. This may take several seconds, depending on the user s machine.
A Chrome window will open with the requested URL. This is the iLab s Chrome instance running, so the user can use the browser as if they were directly using the iLab machine.
X2Go

If the user is using X2Go, they can run the iLab's included browser (Firefox or Chrome) and hand in their assignments through it. If the user is using a different SSH client than MobaXterm, they will need one with X11Forwarding. This is a long, generally difficult process to get working, so it is recommended to use MobaXterm. Documentation for X11 forwarding in PuTTY is available.

List of iLabs

There are multiple iLabs available for use. All of their hostnames and statuses can be found on the Computer Science iLab website.

Not all iLabs can be used by undergraduates. For example, gpu.cs.rutgers.edu is specifically for Graduate students taking a certain course. The Hadoop cluster is not considered an iLab, so regular students will not have access to it.

" KB0014353 Local IT Local IT - Rutgers Business School (RBS) Computers and Printers "

The Rutgers Business School has a computer lab inside the building that OIT does not administer. If a caller has trouble logging into one of these computers but can log in to cas.rutgers.edu, direct them to the contact information below for the Rutgers Business School Office of Technology & Instructional Service (OTIS). Users can print from their personal devices to the printers in the Business School building by connecting to RUWireless Secure and downloading Mobility Print.

Contacting RBS OTIS

RBS OTIS can be contacted via email at helpdesk@business.rutgers.edu or through the specific offices listed below.

Newark Office

1 Washington Park
Room 526
Newark, NJ 07102

Tel: (973) 353-1821
Fax: (973) 353-5176

Office Hours

Monday through Friday 8:00 am to 8:00 pm

Livingston Office

100 Rockefeller Road
Room 4024
Piscataway, NJ 08854

Tel: (848) 445-0430
Fax: (732) 445-5647

Office Hours

Monday through Friday 8:00 am to 8:00 pm

Additional contact information, available services, and staff members can be found at the RBS OTIS site.

" KB0013897 Local IT Local IT - SAS IT - School of Arts and Sciences New Brunswick Information Technology Office "

Who are SAS IT New Brunswick?

The SAS New Brunswick Information Technology Office provides a wide range of IT services to the New Brunswick School of Arts and Sciences community. Services include file and print sharing, web hosting, web design, application development, technology consulting, and repair and maintenance services. While some of our services are fee-based, most are centrally funded by the SAS Dean's Office, so SAS members can use them free of charge.

What domains do they support?
africana.rutgers.edu
alc.rutgers.edu
amerstudies.rutgers.edu
amesall.rutgers.edu
anthro.rutgers.edu
anthropology.rutgers.edu
arthist.rutgers.edu
asianstudies.rutgers.edu
cca.rutgers.edu
chem.rutgers.edu
classics.rutgers.edu
complit.rutgers.edu
crimjust.rutgers.edu
cs.rutgers.edu
cwgl.rutgers.edu
dls.rutgers.edu
economics.rutgers.edu
english.rutgers.edu
eps.rutgers.edu
esl.rutgers.edu
french.rutgers.edu
geography.rutgers.edu
greell.rutgers.edu
history.rutgers.edu
italian.rutgers.edu
iwl.rutgers.edu
jewishstudies.rutgers.edu
kines.rutgers.edu
lcs.rutgers.edu
linguistics.rutgers.edu
math.rutgers.edu
pals.rutgers.edu
philosophy.rutgers.edu
physics.rutgers.edu
polisci.rutgers.edu
psych.rutgers.edu
religion.rutgers.edu
ruccs.rutgers.edu
sas.rutgers.edu
sasmail.rutgers.edu
sociology.rutgers.edu
spanport.rutgers.edu
stat.rutgers.edu
taep.rutgers.edu
tlc.rutgers.edu
womenstudies.rutgers.edu
When do we escalate incidents to SAS IT New Brunswick?

For the domains they support, SAS IT New Brunswick handles:

Central Systems Support, such as Rutgers Connect, CornerStone, and DocuSign
Consulting and Advising Services
Desktop and Mobile Systems Support for Windows, Mac, and Linux
File and Print Services
Instructional Support - Teaching and Learning
Networking
Research and High Performance Computing - Amarel, Caliburn
Security - System and Server Security
Software and Application Development
Web Development & Support - Website Creation, Joomla! Help
Reassignment process:

For any incident regarding the above issues for users within the supported domains, please change the assignment group to SAS - Help Desk for triage to the SAS New Brunswick IT Help Desk when necessary.

" KB0014213 Local IT Local IT - School of Engineering Computing Services (ECS) "

Additional points of contact for the user can be found at ecs.rutgers.edu. Alternatively, they may email staff@soe.rutgers.edu.

Tickets can be submitted to them directly via their form.

If the user is inquiring about obtaining network access within their office, they should be directed to ecs.rutgers.edu and asked to fill out an IP request form from that page. Additionally, the Engineering Computing Services accepts walk-ins during their business hours in room EN-B124A.

For other related/unrelated issues, please speak with a supervisor.

" KB0014215 Local IT Local IT - School of Nursing (SoN) IST & Local IT "

The OIT Help Desk is responsible for first-level support for School of Nursing users. More information and guidance can be found in the knowledge article about the School of Nursing (SoN) Call Handling Procedures.

" KB0014131 MacOS MacOS - Consultant Manual - Americans With Disabilities Act Software (ADA) "

The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requires that we provide tools to assist patrons with disabilities. Macs have many of these tools built-in. It is important that you are able to efficiently help anyone using this software, so please read the following information carefully. This guide is written using macOS Ventura, but prior versions of macOS include comparable settings and features.

Accessibility options can be found in the Apple Menu in the upper left corner of the Menu bar under System Settings. Here, the Accessibility menu holds various options under different sections based on the sense they are intended to assist with.

The options are broken into the following sections:

Vision
Hearing
Motor
General

The first group that is displayed is Vision for visual aids. Available options include:

VoiceOver - An accessibility interface that offers users magnification options, keyboard control and spoken English descriptions of what is happening on screen. VoiceOver is capable of reading aloud the contents of files, including web pages, mail messages, and word processing files. The complete keyboard navigation allows users to control the computer with the keyboard rather than a mouse.
Zoom - Allows users to enable or disable various methods of zooming in to onscreen content.
Display - Home for various visual options such as inverting colors, increasing contrast, adjusting the size of the pointer, and adding color filters.
Spoken Content - Allows users to set hotkeys and adjust various settings for on-demand screen reading.
Descriptions - Allows users to toggle the option for their computer to play available audio descriptions in visual media by default.

While these options are specifically designed to assist with the user experience for visually impaired users, keep in mind that other generic options such as increasing text size or resolution within a Mac's non-Accessibility Displays menu may also satisfy a user's needs.

The Hearing group has options intended to support users' audio experiences. Available options include:

Audio - Allows users to enable a screen flash to coincide with alert sounds, and switch audio playback from stereo to mono. Additionally, there are options for enabling and configuring background sounds to assist users with focusing and masking distracting noise in their environments.
Captions - Allows users to adjust the appearance of captions across macOS, and enable more detailed closed captions or subtitles for the deaf and hard of hearing where available.

Under the Motor group, users can find settings to adjust their control of the computer. Available options include:

Voice Control - Allows users to use their voice to control text input or interact with their computer, even while on a call.
Keyboard - Allows users to enable full keyboard control of their computer, with shortcuts available for all required actions. Also allows users to configure how long they need to hold down modifier keys, or adjust the timing between a keypress and its action. Additionally, users can enable an on-screen Accessibility Keyboard, bypassing the need for a hardware keyboard.
Pointer Control - Allows users to adjust the timing on when their computer recognizes a double-click, whether the Finder will pop out another window when a file is dragged over a folder (referred to as Spring-loading), and enable alternate control methods such as using their keyboard to move the pointer.
Switch Control - Allows users to enable and configure alternative control methods for their computer, including with a mouse, keyboard, gamepad, or other dedicated accessibility devices.

Lastly, the General group includes:

Siri - Allows users to enable the ability to type requests to Siri, macOS' digital assistant, rather than speak them.
Shortcut - Allows users to set various accessibility features to be toggled on or off with the keyboard shortcut Option-Command-F5.

For more information on macOS' accessibility features including prior versions of macOS, view the accessibility section of Apple's macOS User Guide.

" KB0016677 MacOS MacOS - Editing is Disabled on Office 365 Apps for MacOS "

This error is typically related to a licensing issue with the user's current installation of Microsoft Office applications. Follow the steps below to resolve the issue:

In order to remedy the issue, the following steps will need to be taken.

Steps to Resolve the Error

Sign Out of Office Applications

Launch each Office app installed on the Mac (e.g., Word, Excel, PowerPoint).
Click on the application name (e.g., Word) in the menu bar and choose Sign Out.
Quit the application.

Access the Library Folder

Open Finder.
Click on the Go menu and select Go to Folder.
In the box, type ~/Library and click Go.

Delete Group Containers

Navigate to the Group Containers folder.
Locate and move the following files/folders to the Trash:
UBF8T346G9.ms
UBF8T346G9.Office
UBF8T346G9.OfficeOsfWebHost

Empty the Trash

Empty the Trash to remove the files permanently.

Restart and Check

Restart the Mac.
Launch an Office application and verify if the issue is resolved.
If the Issue Persists
Reference Microsoft's instructional article: How to remove Office license files on a Mac.

" KB0014139 Mailman Mailman - Common Issues "

Owner can't post

Owners/Administrators (same thing) can't post to a list unless they are also members, or on the list of non-members permitted to post. This is the most common problem people experience when they are new to Mailman.

Member can't post

Members of a list will have their messages held for moderator/owner approval unless they are unmoderated members, or the list is configured to accept all postings.

Message size

Default message size limit on Mailman is 40kb. Messages larger than list's setting will not post. General Options page has an option to adjust the max size. A setting of 0 is equivalent to no limit.

Recommended: It is recommended that they do not send attachments through Mailman. Not only can it slow the entire system down if the list is large, but not everyone can receive attachments. Non-digest Option called "scrub_nondigest" will take attachments out of the mail, put the attachment in the list's archive (archiving must also be enabled), and then send a link to the archive where the file can be downloaded. This is the best way to send attachments through Mailman.

Wants to change name of list

Cannot be done. Must request a new list.

Changing Display Names in lists

If a user has a Mailman account setup, the display name for their email address in any list will always be pulled from the user's Profile settings. No matter what the owner of the list does. This includes if they have an account and did not specify a First and Last name in their profile, which will result in no Display Name being shown in any Mailman list.

There is no way to override a display name other than for the user to change their own.

If they do not have a Mailman account setup using the email address in someone else's list, that list owner can only specify a display name for them if they use the Mass Subscribe option to add them to the list and use one of the formats that specify a name when adding them.

There is no way to edit the display name after they have been added to a list.

Deleting lists

Users must email help@oit.rutgers.edu to have lists deleted.

" KB0016446 Mailman Mailman - Support Tool "

You can access the support tool at: https://lists.rutgers.edu/mm3/mailman3/lists/ which will present you with all current Mailman lists.

Main Page

Use Ctrl + F to search this page for a specific list. Clicking into the list will give you a subset of information about that particular list as noted below.

LISTNAME.config

Shows all current configured options for the list. Available descriptions for each field are noted below.

accept_these_nonmembers: This is a list, one per line, of regexps matching addresses that are allowed to post to this mailing list without subscribing to the list. Entries are regexps beginning with `^' and are matched against the sender addresses in the message. While non-regexp addresses can be entered here, it is preferred to add the address as a nonmember and set the nonmember's Moderation to Default Processing.
acceptablealias: This is a list, one per line, of addresses and regexps matching addresses that are acceptable in To: or Cc: in lieu of the list posting address when `require_explicit_destination' is enabled. Entries are either email addresses or regexps matching email addresses. Regexps are entries beginning with `^' and are matched against every recipient address in the message. The matching is performed with Python's re.match() function, meaning they are anchored to the start of the string.
admin_immed_notify: Should the list moderators get immediate notice of new requests, as well as daily notices about collected ones? List moderators (and list administrators) are sent daily reminders of requests pending approval, like subscriptions to a moderated list, or postings that are being held for one reason or another. Setting this option causes notices to be sent immediately on the arrival of new requests as well.
admin_notify_mchanges: Should administrator get notices of subscribes and unsubscribes?
administrators:
administrivia: Administrivia tests will check postings to see whether it's really meant as an administrative request (like subscribe, unsubscribe, etc), and will add it to the administrative requests queue, notifying the administrator of the new request, in the process.
advertised:
allow_list_posts:
anonymous_list: Hide the sender of a message, replacing it with the list address (Removes From, Sender and Reply-To fields)
archive_policy: Policy for archiving messages for this list
archive_rendering_mode: This option enables rendering of emails in archiver as rich text with formatting based on markup in the email. Currently, this option is only supported by Hyperkitty.
autorespond_owner: Should Mailman send an auto-response to emails sent to the -owner address?
autorespond_postings: Should Mailman send an auto-response to mailing list posters?
autorespond_requests: Should Mailman send an auto-response to emails sent to the -request address? If you choose yes, decide whether you want Mailman to discard the original email, or forward it on to the system as a normal mail command.
autoresponse_grace_period: Number of days between auto-responses to either the mailing list or -request/-owner address from the same poster. Set to zero (or negative) for no grace period (i.e. auto-respond to every message).
autoresponse_owner_text: Auto-response text to send to -owner emails.
autoresponse_postings_text: Auto-response text to send to mailing list posters.
autoresponse_request_text: Auto-response text to send to -request emails.
bounce_info_stale_after: The number of days after which a member's bounce information is considered stale. If no new bounces have been received in the interim, the bounce score is reset to zero. This value must be an integer.
bounce_matching_headers:
bounce_notify_owner_on_bounce_increment: This option controls whether or not the list owner is notified when a member's bounce score is incremented, but to a value less than their bounce threshold.
bounce_notify_owner_on_disable: This option controls whether or not the list owner is notified when a member's subscription is automatically disabled due to their bounce threshold being reached.
bounce_notify_owner_on_removal: This option controls whether or not the list owner is notified when a member is removed from the list after their disabled notifications have been exhausted.
bounce_score_threshold: This is the bounce score above which a member's subscription will be automatically disabled. When the subscription is re-enabled, their bounce score will be reset to zero.
bounce_you_are_disabled_warnings: The number of notices a disabled member will receive before their address is removed from the mailing list's roster. Set this to 0 to immediately remove an address from the list once their bounce score exceeds the threshold. This value must be an integer.
bounce_you_are_disabled_warnings_interval: The number of days between each disabled notification.
bounces_address:
collapse_alternatives:
confirm_address:
convert_html_to_plaintext: Should Mailman convert text/html parts to plain text? This conversion happens after MIME attachments have been stripped.
created_at: Date of list creation
data_path:
default_member_action: Default action to take when a member posts to the list. Hold: This holds the message for approval by the list moderators. Reject: this automatically rejects the message by sending a bounce notice to the post's author; the text of the bounce notice can be configured by you. Discard: this simply discards the message, with no notice sent to the post's author. Accept: accepts any postings without any further checks.
Default Processing: run additional checks and accept the message.
default_nonmember_action: When a post from a non-member is received, the message's sender is matched against the list of explicitly accepted, held, rejected (bounced), and discarded addresses. If no match is found, then this action is taken.
description: Animal Sciences Faculty
digest_is_default: False
digest_last_sent_at: Last posting sent.
digest_members:
digest_send_periodic: Should Mailman send out digests periodically?
digest_size_threshold: How big in Kb should a digest be before it gets sent out?
digest_volume_frequency: At what frequency should Mailman increment the digest volume number and reset the issue number?
digests_enabled: Should Mailman enable digests for this MailingList?
discard_these_nonmembers: This is a list, one per line, of regexps matching nonmember addresses, posts from which are discarded automatically. Entries are regexps beginning with `^' and are matched against the sender addresses in the message. While non-regexp addresses can be entered here, it is preferred to add the address as a nonmember and set the nonmember's Moderation to Discard.
display_name: Display name is the name shown in the web interface.
dmarc_mitigate_action: The action to apply to messages From: a domain publishing a DMARC policy of reject or quarantine or to all messages if DMARC Mitigate unconditionally is True.
dmarc_mitigate_unconditionally: If DMARC mitigation action is munge_from or wrap_message, should it apply to all messages regardless of the DMARC policy of the From: domain.
dmarc_moderation_notice: Text to replace the default reason in any rejection notice to be sent when DMARC mitigation action of reject applies.
dmarc_wrapped_message_text: Text to be added as a separate text/plain MIME part preceding the original message part in the wrapped message when DMARC mitigation action of wrap message applies.
domain:
emergency: When this option is enabled, all list traffic is emergency moderated, i.e. held for moderation. Turn this option on when your list is experiencing a flamewar and you want a cooling off period.
encode_ascii_prefixes:
filter_action: Action to take on messages which have no content after filtering. Discard: silently discard the message. Reject: discard the message and notify the sender. Forward: forward the message to the list owner(s). Preserve: save the message in qfiles/bad.
filter_content: Should Mailman filter the content of list traffic according to the settings below?
filter_extensions: Extensions to filter from the incoming posts.
filter_types: MIME types to filter from the incoming posts. A list of common types can be found here
first_strip_reply_to: Should any existing Reply-To: header found in the original message be stripped? If so, this will be done regardless of whether an explict Reply-To: header is added by Mailman or not.
forward_auto_discards:
forward_unrecognized_bounces_to: Discard: Unrecognized bounces will be discarded. List Admins: Send to the list owners and moderators. Site Admin: Send to the site's configured site_owner.
fqdn_listname:
gateway_to_mail: Flag indicating that posts to the linked newsgroup should be gated to the list
gateway_to_news: Flag indicating that posts to the list should be gated to the linked newsgroup.
get_roster: <bound method MailingList.get_roster of <mailing list "anisci_fac@email.rutgers.edu" at 0x7fe18b1272b0>>
header_matches:
hold_these_nonmembers: This is a list, one per line, of regexps matching nonmember addresses, posts from which are held automatically. Entries are regexps beginning with `^' and are matched against the sender addresses in the message. While non-regexp addresses can be entered here, it is preferred to add the address as a nonmember and set the nonmember's Moderation to Hold.
id:
include_rfc2369_headers: Yes is highly recommended. RFC 2369 defines a set of List-* headers that are normally added to every message sent to the list membership. These greatly aid end-users who are using standards compliant mail readers. They should normally always be enabled. However, not all mail readers are standards compliant yet, and if you have a large number of members who are using non-compliant mail readers, they may be annoyed at these headers. You should first try to educate your members as to why these headers exist, and how to hide them in their mail clients. As a last resort you can disable these headers, but this is not recommended (and in fact, your ability to disable these headers may eventually go away).
info:
is_subscribed:
join_address:
last_digest_recipients:
last_post_at: Date of last posting
leave_address:
linked_newsgroup: The name of the linked newsgroup.
list_id:
list_name:
mail_host:
max_days_to_hold:
max_message_size: The maximum allowed message size in KB. This can be used to prevent emails with large attachments. A size of 0 disables the check.
max_num_recipients: If a post has this many or more explicit recipients (To: and Cc:), the post will be held for moderation. This can be used to prevent mass mailings from being accepted. A value of 0 disables the check.
member_moderation_notice:
member_roster_visibility: Who is allowed to see members list for this MailingList
members:
metadata:
moderator_password:
moderators:
newsgroup_moderation: The moderation policy for the linked newsgroup, if there is one.
next_digest_number:
next_request_id:
nntp_prefix_subject_too: Flag indicating whether the list's "Subject Prefix" should be included in posts gated to usenet.
no_reply_address:
nonmember_rejection_notice:
nonmembers:
obscure_addresses:
owner_address:
owner_chain:
owner_pipeline:
owners:
pass_extensions: Extensions to allow in the incoming posts.
pass_types: MIME types to allow in the incoming posts. A list of common types can be found here
personalize: None: No personalization. Individual: Everyone gets a unique copy of the message, and there are a few more substitution variables, but no headers are modified. Full: All of the 'individual' personalization plus recipient header modification.
post_id:
posting_address:
posting_chain:
posting_pipeline: Type of pipeline you want to use for this mailing list
preferred_language:
process_bounces: Specifies whether or not this list should do automatic bounce processing.
regular_members:
reject_these_nonmembers: This is a list, one per line, of regexps matching nonmember addresses, posts from which are rejected with notice to the sender. Entries are regexps beginning with `^' and are matched against the sender addresses in the message. While non-regexp addresses can be entered here, it is preferred to add the address as a nonmember and set the nonmember's Moderation to Reject.
reply_goes_to_list: Where are replies to list messages directed? No Munging is strongly recommended for most mailing lists.
This option controls what Mailman does to the Reply-To: header in messages flowing through this mailing list. When set to No Munging, no Reply-To: header is added by Mailman, although if one is present in the original message, it is not stripped. Setting this value to either Reply to List, Explicit Reply, or Reply Only causes Mailman to insert a specific Reply-To: header in all messages, overriding the header in the original message if necessary (Explicit Reply inserts the value of reply_to_address). Explicit Reply-to set; no Cc added is useful forannounce-only lists where you want to avoid someone replying to the list address. There are many reasons not to introduce or override the Reply-To: header. One is that some posters depend on their own Reply-To: settings to convey their valid return address. Another is that modifying Reply-To: makes it much more difficult to send private replies. See `Reply-To' Munging Considered Harmful for a general discussion of this issue. See `Reply-To' Munging Considered Useful for a dissenting opinion. Some mailing lists have restricted posting privileges, with a parallel list devoted to discussions. Examples are `patches' or `checkin' lists, where software changes are posted by a revision control system, but discussion about the changes occurs on a developers mailing list. To support these types of mailing lists, select Explicit Reply and set the Reply-To: address option to point to the parallel list.
reply_to_address: This option allows admins to set an explicit Reply-to address. It is only used if the reply-to is set to use an explicitly set header
request_address:
require_explicit_destination: This checks to ensure that the list posting address or an acceptable alias explicitly appears in a To: or Cc: header in the post.
respond_to_post_requests:
scrub_nondigest:
send_goodbye_message: Send goodbye message to newly unsubscribed members? Turn this off only if you plan on unsubscribing people manually and don't want them to know that you did so.The text of Goodbye message can be set via the Templates tab.
send_one_last_digest_to:
send_welcome_message: Send welcome message to newly subscribed members? Turn this off only if you plan on subscribing people manually and don't want them to know that you did so. Setting this to No is most useful for transparently migrating lists from some other mailing list manager to Mailman.
The text of Welcome message can be set via the Templates tab.
subject_prefix:
subscribe:
subscribe_address:
subscribers:
subscription_policy: Open: Subscriptions are added automatically. Confirm: Subscribers need to confirm the subscription using an email sent to them. Moderate: Moderators will have to authorize each subscription manually.
Confirm then Moderate: First subscribers have to confirm, then a moderator needs to authorize.
topics:
topics_bodylines_limit:
topics_enabled:
unsubscribe_address:
unsubscription_policy: Open: Un-Subscriptions happen automatically. Confirm: Subscribers need to confirm the un-subscription using an email sent to them. Moderate: Moderators will have to authorize each un-subscription manually.
Confirm then Moderate: First subscribers have to confirm, then a moderator needs to authorize.
usenet_watermark:
volume:

LISTNAME.last_post

Gives you the timestamp of the last post that was sent out to members of the list.

LISTNAME.member

Shows a list of everyone that is a member of the list who is subscribed.

LISTNAME.moderator

If the list is setup for moderation, this lists the users that would have to approve any email before it is distributed to the list.

LISTNAME.nonmember

Non-members are email addresses that are not members but have some connection to a list. Typically they are people who have posted to the mailing list but are not subscribed to it.

LISTNAME.owner

Shows the owner(s) of the list.

Contacting list owners

Anyone can send email to the owners of a list by sending to the email address formatted as: listname-owner@email.rutgers.edu

Relevant Knowledge Articles

Debugging Mailman error messages

How to update and verify email addresses affiliated with your Mailman account

Editing a Mailman list s configuration

Mailman viewing archives

Mailman information and guidelines about creating new mailing lists

Some additional answers to common FAQs can be found on the Mailman Documentation.

" KB0016179 myRutgers myRutgers - Common Widget Issues "

Many students (either currently enrolling or already admitted) experience various issues with widgets on their My Dashboard that prevent them from viewing grades, accessing financial aid, or preparing for enrollment. The list below lists various common issues on the MyRutgers Dashboard and how to resolve them.

Red Enrollment Widget with Error contacting service. Notification

If you are not currently enrolling at Rutgers as a student:
These widgets will show "Error contacting service."
Select the X icon in the top-right section of the widget to remove it from your dashboard.
If you are currently enrolling at Rutgers as an incoming student:
If you see that you need to pay an enrollment fee, then you must pay the acceptance fee before proceeding.
If you paid the acceptance fee and still see the error, please wait 2-3 business days before escalating the issue to Rutgers One Stop Student Services. Contact the Rutgers One Stop Student Services for support.
Disappeared Widget from the Dashboard
On the My Dashboard tab, select the plus icon  in the top-right corner of the page.
You may Browse Widgets to select a category and a specific widget to add to your dashboard.
Alternatively, you may Search for a widget to add to your dashboard.
Select Add to add to your dashboard.
Blank Widget





For blank widgets, we recommend troubleshooting in the browser. Suggested troubleshooting steps are listed below:

Clearing cache and cookies on your browser
Using an incognito tab
Using a different browser
Using a different device
Restarting your device
Add a Widget
Log in to MyRutgers and navigate to the Dashboard tab.
Click on the plus sign in the upper-right-hand corner. This should pull up the Add Widget window.
Select the appropriate category for the widget you are searching for.
Alternatively, you can search for the widget itself by selecting the Search tab and entering its name.
Please note that if you already have the widget on your dashboard, it will not appear in Search.
Navigate to the appropriate widget and click the plus sign - the widget should now appear on the Dashboard.
Remove a Widget
Go to Settings > Toggle Dark Mode Off.
Expand the navigation sidebar.
Click on the down arrow to the right of the dashboard.
Select Reorder Widgets.
Utilize the Trash Bin Icon to remove widgets. Please be advised that some widgets are locked and cannot be removed.
Move a Widget
Go to Settings > Toggle Dark Mode Off.
Expand the navigation sidebar.
Click the sidebar arrow to the right of the dashboard.
Select Reorder Widgets.
Click and Drag the two horizontal lines to reorder the widgets.
Once finished, select Set Order.

" KB0014220 myRutgers myRutgers - myGuest Dashboard "

The myGuest Dashboard allows students to grant parents, guardians, and third parties access to view content and services related to their university experience. They will be able to grant access to a maximum of 3 authorized users and choose which information they can view.

Student Overview

The following guide provides step-by-step instructions for completing the user authorization process on the student's end:

Log in to myRutgers with NetID and password.
Open settings
Select Authorized Access
You are now on the My Authorized Users page. Select Add a User
Review the FERPA agreement
Check off the box > select Confirm
Fill out the fields highlighted in yellow
Select which records your authorized user should have access to
Select Submit
Your authorized user has now been added. 3 active users are allowed at one time. You can additionally perform the following actions:
Use the Edit icon to change certain information about that user, as well as permissions
Resend the Welcome Email if it was lost
Change user to inactive
How-to Guide for Authorized Users

The myGuest Dashboard enables authorized users, such as parents, guardians, and third parties, to view student information online. Students must authorize users and choose which information they can view. Once the student completes the authorization process, the user will be able to register by creating a CommunityID.

The following guide provides step-by-step instructions for creating a CommunityID and viewing student information on the myGuest Dashboard:

A student must create an authorized user before the user can create a CommunityID and view information on the myGuest Dashboard.
Once the student identifies a user, the user will receive a welcome email with information about the myGuest Dashboard.
The user should click the Register CommunityID link in the email to open the CommunityID registration site.
On the registration page, the name and email address are already filled in, as entered by the student when adding the user. The user will need to create a password, check the COPPA box, and click Register.
Once the user is registered, they can navigate to myRutgers and click CommunityID Login. They can log in with their email address and the password they created.
The user will then see a profile picture of the student(s) who authorized them, as well as the four-digit PIN assigned by the student(s). The user can select Student and launch the dashboard for view-only access.
The user will only have access to information that the student authorized for them. For example, if they were granted access to student accounting records, they would see access to pay the student's term bill. Click on the eye cover icon to reveal private information.
When calling or visiting the university, the authorized user must know the four-digit PIN, which administrators will verify before speaking with the user to protect the student's rights.

Related articles:

CommunityID - Support Info

" KB0014221 myRutgers myRutgers - myRutgers Proxy Mode "

Proxy Mode provides eligible users access to the myRutgers student dashboard as other users. Proxy Mode is only to be used when a Rutgers student has provided permission and should be noted as such in the Incident Work Notes.

The level of proxy mode access depends on the staff member's role and the permissions set by the data custodians. This service will primarily be used by Deans/Department Chairs and other administrative staff; currently, only select Help Desk Staff have access to this tool. Typically, this tool is restricted to FT only.

As a reminder, users of Proxy Mode for the myRutgers and myGuest dashboards are responsible for using student data and information in a professional, ethical, and lawful manner. In accessing and utilizing information from the dashboards, all users must ensure that student information is appropriately secured and managed. Users have a responsibility to abide by all federal and state regulations, including FERPA, GLBA, and others, to ensure the confidentiality of student data and the safeguarding of non-public customer information, and are required to complete GLBA security awareness training (if applicable).

Instructions on using Proxy Mode are in the attached PDF.

To access proxy mode in the new myRutgers UI, click on the Settings (gear) icon on the left sidebar. Go to the Security section and enter the NetID of the user you wish to proxy.

" KB0014222 myRutgers myRutgers - Support and Common Issues "

Table of Contents
Common Issues
Access Issues
Personal Information
Miscellaneous Notes
New (my Rutgers UXP) FAQs
Escalating Issues

Common Issues
Access Issues

Most problems regarding accessing the myRutgers portal are related to NetID password issues. All users should log in with their NetID and password (if they have forgotten their password, please refer to the password reset procedures).

If a user tries to access employee self-service on MyRutgers Portal, they must have a faculty, staff, or student worker role; if they do not, please speak with a Supervisor.

Personal Information

To find the RUID number,

Log in to MyRutgers and navigate to the Dashboard tab.
Navigate to the Profile Widget
The RUID number is shown below the Personal Photo.

To update the Emergency Contact Information:

Log in to MyRutgers and navigate to the Apps tab.
Utilize the Search Apps tool in the upper right-hand corner.
Search and select Emergency Contacts.
You will be redirected to an external page.

Alumni cannot edit personal information in the myRutgers portal. If users cannot update their personal information themselves, please refer them to the Registrar s Office to have it manually updated.

Miscellaneous Notes

If users change their mobile device default language from English to another language, they will not be able to proceed past Duo Authentication on their phones. This issue has been escalated to Duo's administrators.

While fairly intuitive to use, the portal does take practice to get the most from it, including customizing the channels and appearance to taste. For questions about configuring myRutgers, please refer to the Knowledge Base.

For specific myRutgers issues, such as users receiving error messages other than NetID/password issues, please speak with a Supervisor.

New (my Rutgers UXP) FAQs

Publicly available FAQs for the new myRutgers user interface: MyRutgers Knowledge Base

Escalating Issues

Priority 1 emergency (portal server/service is down/interruption): Please follow the existing Opsgenie protocol.

To escalate user incidents that need advanced support, reassign to EAS myRutgers.

" KB0019691 NB Lab Printing Support Support for OIT Printing at the School of Social Work (SSW) "

Table of Contents
When assisting patrons
Communicating with OIT and requesting escalated assistance
Requesting balance adjustments
How to submit a balance adjustment request
Ordering supplies and requesting repairs
When assisting patrons

When assisting patrons with printing issues, you should refer to the references below.

OIT's Print Management page
This page links to printing information for students and computer lab issues, including
Printing Information for Students has an overview of the printing process
PaperCut for OIT computer labs, which links to
Printing FAQs
Papercut Documentation
How do I print from a laptop or mobile device? Knowledge article
This knowledge article contains information about installing Mobility Print on personal devices
Communicating with OIT and requesting escalated assistance

The Teams channel, called the OIT and SSW Printing Coordination Group, will be the primary method of communication regarding support for the SSW Ricoh printer. OIT Lab student supervisors and full-time staff will monitor this channel. There is a notifications sub-channel for routine supply order updates and repair notifications.

When using the Teams channel is not possible, please call the College Avenue Computing Center Supervisor line at 848-932-0319 or email us at cacc_lab@oit.rutgers.edu.

Requesting balance adjustments

Before requesting a Balance Adjustment, please ensure the issue was not due to user error. Balance Adjustments are processed for issues beyond the user's control, such as device malfunctions, and when a print release is not an option.

OIT staff can process a print release instead of a balance adjustment. A print release is where, after errors/problems have been addressed, the user resubmits the problematic print job. An OIT staff member can remotely release the user's print job. Please contact the OIT Lab staff via Teams to request a print release. When requesting a print release, we need the following information.

User's NetID

Affected Printer

Name of user's print job

If there are multiple print jobs with the same name, additional identifying information, such as a timestamp, may be required.

How to submit a balance adjustment request

To submit a Balance Adjustment request, you will need to use the Rutgers Self-Service Portal.

On the page, you will select Report an Issue. This will take you to a form allowing you to create an incident.





Under the first field, Help Desk, select Labs Print Balance Adjustment.





Please select Yes for the field displaying, Is this request for someone other than yourself?, And provide the NetID of the user requesting the balance adjustment.

In the Summary field, you will provide the lab location, printer name, and the user's NetID (Lab - PrinterName - NetID).

In the field that states, Please describe your issue, provide the following information:

User's NetID

Date

Time

Printer Name

Cost

Document name

A detailed account of the user's printing issue

Steps taken to resolve the issue

Confirmation if a reprint was offered

Within the Alternate email section, enter the email address, oit-ssw-printing@oit.rutgers.edu.

In the Callback number field, enter the phone number for the printer's SSW location.

Submit the form when finished.

Ordering supplies and requesting repairs

OIT can be notified of supply and repair requests via the Teams channel.

Paper is ordered from Office Depot. Replenishment of the paper should be requested when the location is down to 2 boxes.

Toners are ordered directly from Ricoh. Typically, one or two of each type are kept on site. When one is used, a replacement is then ordered. Order notifications can be tracked via the Noticafations sub-channel in Teams.

Regarding repair requests, we may perform limited troubleshooting, but if we are unable to fix the issue, we will initiate a repair call with Ricoh. Repairs are handled directly with Ricoh. Ricoh technicians typically respond to service requests within 4 hours.

Printer Data:

Model: IMC 6010

Manufacturer Serial: 9196R210617

Serial Number: C91350431

Equipment ID#: 14937348

Location: 120 Albany Street, 2nd Floor, New Brunswick, NJ 08901

" KB0019569 NetID NetID Password Scramble Issues "

Introduction

NetID passwords can be scrambled when users click a malicious link. This security measure is taken as a precaution to protect the private and confidential data of Rutgers users. A password scramble does not mean that their data is compromised or that their account is locked; it only requires a password reset to resolve the issue.

Alternatively, a Kerberos lock and a Lock for Deprovisioning are NetID account locks and require different procedures to unlock the account. A lock for deprovisioning occurs when a user loses their active role due to not being affiliated with Rutgers or to a role transition. In this case, they would need to reactivate their account to regain access, provided they get an active role. To check for active roles, please visit Open Registry and search for the user using one of the identifiers. A Kerberos lock, on the other hand, means the account is fully locked due to potential compromise, requiring full-time intervention to unlock it. Once the user's identity is verified via an alternate email address, phone number, or CVC, the call can be transferred to a full-time staff member to unlock. A user's alternate phone number or email address can be found by clicking on one of their active roles on Open Registry.



How to check if a user's NetID password is scrambled
Visit NetID Admin.
Scroll down to the Kerberos status section after searching for the affected user's netID.
In the table under Kerberos Lockout History, verify whether the Only Password scrambled? field is marked Y.




Furthermore, note that the Reason Code and Notes fields explain why the password was scrambled.
How to assist a user whose password has been scrambled
Explain to the user that their account is not locked and their password has only been scrambled as a precaution.
Guide the user through the password reset process.
After the user resets their password, verify that the change has been processed in NetID Admin. The LDAP Password Change Date should reflect the date and time of the user's last password change. Once you confirm that the user has successfully reset their password, post their latest NetID Admin information in the ticket's work notes.

" KB0014229 Network Network - 180 West Market "

Some calls will be forwarded to the New Brunswick Computing Help Desk if the RBHS Help Desk, the School of Dental Medicine (SDM) support, or the New Jersey Medical School (NJMS) support are unable to resolve the issue.

Residential Wired Network

The Residential Network in 180 West Market Street includes one wired ethernet port in the lounge of each apartment. The wired network will utilize 802.1x authentication.

No routers are permitted in 180 West Market Street - even with the wireless feature turned off. - NO EXCEPTIONS.

If we are not absolutely sure that the device in question is NOT a router, do NOT bypass it. Instead, we will ask the user if they can take a picture of the device with the MAC address sticker visible. If the picture shows with absolute certainty the device is NOT a router, we may bypass it.

RUWireless/RUWireless_Secure

Consultants may receive 180 West Market calls transferred from the RBHS Help Desk or directly from users. When handling these calls, please perform all expected RUWireless troubleshooting steps such as checking for a valid 172.31.x.x IP address, valid DNS servers of 128.x.x.x and 172.x.x.x, wireless MAC addresses, reinstallation of RUWireless_Secure, etc. Please see RUWireless Troubleshooting.

Dispatch is now provided to this building. This service operates Monday through Friday, 10:00am - 4:30pm by appointment.

DISPATCH FOR 180 WEST MARKET STREET REQUIRES FULL TIME APPROVAL

**This should ONLY be used when we have exhausted every possible troubleshooting step via phone or email. Compared to normal campus dispatch, there is limited dispatch staff for 180 West Market.

RU_Health_Sciences (wireless network)

This network is no longer broadcast at this location.

TV issues

Direct the user to Campus Televideo if they experience issues with TV channels and TV connectivity. Provide the phone number of 203-983-5400. If the user has already attempted to call Campus Televideo and was unable to reach them, please bring the issue to a supervisor.

Other issues/concerns

It is possible that the user may have serious issues, questions, or concerns about the network decisions made for this building. If that is the case, please tell them to contact Area Coordinator Rosemary Padilla. She has already been handling similar inquiries. She can be contacted via email at rpadilla@newark.rutgers.edu or via phone at (973) 972-4783.

" KB0010943 Network Network - 802.1x Information and Troubleshooting "

For a device to connect to the university network, it must be configured for 802.1x authentication.

Computers can be automatically configured for 802.1x by installing RUWireless Secure.

Specific devices cannot be natively configured for 802.1x because they do not support the 802.1x authentication protocol and must be connected using the instructions on connecting your smart devices, streaming devices, gaming consoles, and wired desktops. These devices include:

Game Consoles (i.e., PS4, Xbox One, Switch)
Media streaming devices
Smart TVs
Wired devices that cannot be configured for 802.1x
Troubleshooting
No Connectivity with Secure

If users change their NetID password, they often need to reinstall Secure.

Under some circumstances, a user can be configured for Secure but is unable to authenticate. C
For OSX, check Profiles in System Preferences to confirm that Secure profiles are installed. Then, check both the Wi-Fi and Ethernet adapters in the Network Preferences: you may need to select Connect next to the 802.1x dropdown.
For Windows, you need to confirm a couple of things:
Confirm that Wired AutoConfig is running. If it is not running, open cmd and run "net start dot3svc", then re-run the installer and reconnect the ethernet cable.
Confirm that the "Authentication" tab has "SecureW2 EAP-TTLS" authentication selected for the adapters in the Adapter Settings.

There are 2 Alternative setups for RUWS, which can be found on the Windows Manual ResNet Setup KA.

No Connectivity with portal registration

It has become known that specific devices may not immediately receive Internet access, even after successfully adding the device, and unplugging/replugging the Ethernet cable.

Game consoles that are properly added (PS/XB/Switch) can receive "Timed Out" connectivity errors when testing connection or attempting to connect.

These occur because the consoles do not wait as long as computers or routers to receive an IP address. You can keep running "Test Connections" in the settings, unplugging/replugging, or restarting the device. If it fails after multiple attempts, an escalation appointment will be scheduled so a router may be tested to resolve the issue.

" KB0014235 Network Network - CIRTs "

Top

Table of Contents
Overview
Repeat Offenses
Identifying System Corruption
Browser Hijackers
What is a Browser Hijacker?
Mobile infections
Virtual Device or Alternate Partition
Linux/Unix
Game Consoles
Advanced Troubleshooting
Creating Firewall Rules
TCPBlock (MacOS)
Overview

Part of the work of the Help Desk is helping to handle CIRT (Computing Incident Response Team) notifications. These notifications come from IPS (Information Protection and Security) when they detect a device on the Rutgers network passing unfavorable traffic, such as botnet activity. After detection, IPS contacts the party responsible for that section of the network, Help Desk is responsible for ResNet, RUWireless/eduroam, and certain VPN connections.

Descriptions for various infections and maladies encountered in CIRTs can be found in the Known CIRT Viruses document. This information can help you better understand and explain the infection to users. Please disseminate this information to users when sending the CIRT shutdown boilerplate emails.

To have their network access reinstated, the user must show that their device is free of infections. They can do this in one of four different ways:

Self-clean: The user can attempt to clean the infection by themselves. In these cases, inform the user that they will not be unblocked until they send us clean logs via the Help Desk email address. This option is only available for the first offense on a device. For repeat offenders, they will need to use an alternate method.
Walk-in: Schedule an appointment using the Walk-in Scheduling calendar.
Dispatch appointment: for dorm residents only, please call the Help Desk for more information.
3rd party: The user may opt to take their device to a third party (including Kite+Key) for cleaning or reformatting, and they will need to contact us afterward to unblock it.
Repeat Offenses

Since ResNet can only use simple methods of removing malicious software from a user s computer, the infection may still exist on the machine even after troubleshooting. The Security Operations Center will flag the user again if the infection has not been removed. Below are general guidelines for handling users who have generated multiple CIRT (Computer Incident Response Ticket) reports.

First offense:

Inform the user of infection and risks.
Users can send clean scans to help@oit.rutgers.edu.
Unban the device once we are confident no further reports will come in.
Second offense:

*BEFORE CLEANING ANY MACHINE, HAVE THE USER SIGN THE WAIVER FORM*.
The user must come into the Help Desk or have Dispatch go out to clean the machine.
Unban the device once we are confident no further reports will come in.
Third offense:

The computer must be professionally cleaned (Computer Repair, Geek Squad, etc.).
Unban the device after the user confirms the device has been cleaned/reformatted.
Identifying System Corruption

In some cases, users may suspect that they have a virus when, in fact, they merely have some kind of problem with their operating system. In other cases, viruses can even cause system corruption after removal. This is why we must make restore points for users before removing viruses. This article will address Windows only.

Generally, a system is considered to have some corruption if you cannot run or access certain Windows services even in safe mode. For example, in safe mode with networking, we were unable to access certain submenus of the control panel. This is a failure of an underlying Windows component and, therefore, indicative of some kind of problem with the OS. Other common signs can include:

Hardware failure
Non-functioning windows features as the above example
Inability to detect new hardware or update drivers
Error messages during boot

Furthermore, repairing system corruption is difficult and not something we support. In cases where we identify this issue, users have three solutions:

Copy the data off the machine & reinstall
Attempt to repair the OS with Windows install media
Take the device to a computer repair professional, i.e. Kite & Key and others

Back to top

Browser Hijackers
What is a Browser Hijacker?

A browser hijacker is a type of malware/adware that usually adds itself as a program in the Control Panel while also infecting registry files and the files for individual browsers. It adds itself as an extension and changes the home pages for the user's browsers (usually all of them, such as Firefox, Chrome, and Edge), while also making sure that any new tabs the user opens will be the home page of a strange "search engine" that looks like an ad-bloated knock-off of a regular search engine. This type of malware is usually paired with an actual computer virus but has been known to sometimes download alongside other random programs and toolbars that users install online.

Search Conduit is a popular browser hijacker you may encounter on a walk-in appointment. They get the user to utilize them as their "search" method while also filling the user's internet browsing experience with ads, so the user will have an increased chance of downloading more malware and viruses.

Removal

To remove a browser hijacker, after signing the waiver and creating a restore point, make sure to go into the user's control panel and remove the associated program. You will find many different programs considered browser hijackers, and on different systems, the same browser hijacker may not have the same name in the control panel. Use your best judgment and search online to ensure any suspicious programs you find are related to the virus.

Make sure to remove the extensions for each browser as well. Since the user's home and new tab pages will be changed, the safest way to change the home page and new tab page defaults back is to perform a complete browser reset for the user's different web browsers. Remember to ask the patron if it is okay to do this and warn them they may lose some of their settings.

A Malwarebytes full scan is the best option to remove this form of malware. Malwarebytes will also be able to locate other types of toolbars and adware that has been installed onto the user's computer as a result of the browser hijacker. After the scan is complete, the computer should be restarted to check that the browsers are no longer redirecting the users to malicious websites. Adblocker Plus is a useful Chrome extension that can help to prevent the user from accidentally clicking on ads in the future as a precautionary measure. If a Malwarebytes scan fails to remove the browser hijacker, Spybot Search and Destroy is another useful tool to remove it.

Since the user may have been infected with other types of malware due to the browser hijacker redirecting them in the past, we should also make sure to leave the user with a fully installed and updated version of Symantec Endpoint Protection (SEP). If they have a ban on RUWireless or ResNet, the removal of browser hijackers should be something we make sure to check for so that we do not have as many repeat offenders. If the user is simply a patron who walks in and is not currently banned, we should still be sending them home with a full scan of SEP running to ensure that, if they are infected but are currently under the radar, they do not end up coming back with a ban later on.

Mobile infections

There has been only one infection for iPhones for which we have generated CIRTs, XcodeGhost. Generally, the infection was caused by a specific app, and the infection is removed by having it removed. Other future infections might require a factory reset of the device.

Virtual Device or Alternate Partition

Some non-Windows operating system users may choose to emulate Windows in a virtual environment. These issues can be resolved by having the user delete their virtual device. For example, a Mac OS user with a Trojan Zeus infection probably has a Windows partition or virtual device. In the case of a virtual device, they can opt to erase it. Second partitions can hold more value for users, so they may choose to have the partition cleaned instead of erasing it.

Linux/Unix

These are very rare and will not generate CIRTs. Generally, users of these devices are savvy enough to deal with their infections. However, we may need to help such a user occasionally. In these cases, you must find an antivirus program compatible with the user s distro.

Game Consoles

Occasionally we will be notified that a user s Xbox is banned for Zeus - Gameover Variant. Traffic from the NBA2K video game series can trigger this ban. If we can verify that the device is an Xbox, we can unban it without further investigation.

Back to top

Advanced Troubleshooting
Creating Firewall Rules

Sometimes, while working on CIRTs, we must set up a firewall rule to prevent a user's computer from communicating with a specific IP address. This should not be your first step, as we want to run AV scans first to ensure malware is not responsible for the user ban. Firewalling should be a last resort, and you should consult with a supervisor before creating any new firewall rules on a user's computer. You also want to inform the user of firewall risks before setting up a new rule.

Firewalling the IP will do one of three things:

A legitimate program causes traffic, and we will be able to identify it because that program will stop working properly.
The traffic is caused by malware that only ever communicates with that IP over that port, effectively stopping the malware from moving sensitive data off the user's computer.
The traffic we see is the only indicator for the malware, but it communicates with multiple hosts/servers and may continue to harm the user's computer or steal data, and IPS will have no way of knowing if it's still there/active.

The third scenario here is really bad, so you should always run AV scans first on the user s computer.

Below are the instructions on how to create firewall rules in Windows

Open up Windows Firewall.
Select Outbound Rules > New Rule > Custom Rule > All Programs.
Leave all settings on the protocol and ports screen the same, then select Next.
Under Remote IP address, select the specific IP addresses > Add the above IP address > Next.
Ensure that the option to Block this connection is selected, then press Next.
Leave all settings on the profile page the same, then press Next.
Create a name for your firewall rule, then click Finish.
TCPBlock (MacOS)

For MacOSX, we commonly use the program TCPBlock to block a user's device from communicating with certain IP addresses. Check the USB Tools for TCPBlock. Otherwise, speak to a supervisor before downloading the program from an external link.

Back to top

" KB0014238 Network Network - Cisco Secure Endpoint/Antivirus Software "

Rutgers has selected Cisco Secure Endpoint (formerly Cisco Advanced Malware Protection (AMP)) as its next-generation endpoint security product on all University-owned equipment.

Cisco Secure Endpoint can be found on the Rutgers Software Portal

For personal devices, Rutgers makes the following recommendations:

For personal Windows devices, Rutgers recommends Windows Defender.
For personal MacOS devices, Rutgers recommends downloading Avira, which the university provides free of charge on the Rutgers Software Portal.

Best practices and more information on Cisco Secure Endpoint, Windows Defender, and Avira can be found at the OIT Antivirus page

" KB0014239 Network Network - DHCP Handshake "

The DHCP (Dynamic Host Configuration Profile) handshake is the network protocol Rutgers networks use to hand out IP addresses. DHCP Servers are devices configured to perform the handshake with new devices and give out addresses, such as routers and switches.

There are 4 stages in a DHCP handshake.

Discovery - Computer asks if anyone is a DHCP server
Offer - Router says that it can give out IPs
Request - Computer asks discovered router for an IP
Acknowledge - Router gives out the IP, and the computer assigns itself that IP

Extra steps include:
Information - Devices can submit an extra request for extra info about other devices
Release - Devices can notify a Server that they are no longer using their IP

Based on the user's IP, we can see what stage their device is failing to get an address in the handshake.

If a user's device has an IP of 0.0.0.0 and it is not connected to a network, it has not started the handshake at all.
If a device has an IP of 169.254.x.x, it has connected to the network but has not been able to find a DHCP server to give out IP addresses and so just gave itself one starting with 169.254.
If a device has a Rutgers 172.31.x.x or 172.30.x.x IP address, it has successfully completed the DHCP handshake, and a separate issue causes the issue.

Devices that have 192.168.x.x or 10.x.x.x IP addresses are not given out by Rutgers DHCP servers; instead, they are given out by personal routers. If you have a user with this IP unable to connect to RUWireless or the dorm's wired internet connection, they are not connected to the right network.

" KB0014240 Network Network - Dorm Outage Procedures and Tracking "

ResNet Outage Reporting and Ticketing Process

The NOC tracks and reports network outages in Rutgers residence halls.

Outage Communication

If the Help Desk is aware of an ongoing outage an announcement will also be shared via Slack.

Ticketing Procedure
A Supervisor will create a parent Incident (INC) ticket to track the outage and post in the td_coordination channel.
The parent INC number will be shared with Help Desk consultants via Slack.
All related tickets regarding the same outage must be created as child tickets under the parent INC.

" KB0014149 Network Network - Escalating Called-in Outages "

Identifying these issues can be difficult, here is a general guide on how to proceed. You should always begin by asking if there is an IT staff member available to speak with.

Your objectives are to first identify:

Who & how many people do the issues affect?
Ex:
All students on Best North 3rd floor
The approximately 30 faculty and staff who work at 15 Centennial Ave
RBHS staff Dr. Xorg reports that the entire 3rd wing of the Orthopedic Building is down
James Bond, IT for the dept of Economics, reports that 60 users in the Guther Building on CAC are unable to access the network
What type of service is the issue affecting?
Ex:
All network access is unavailable.
Wired networking & phone service is down.
The wireless networks are down, but the wired one is working.
All internet is working, but phone service is down.
What is the cause of the issue?
For wireless issues, try and identify the AP(s).
For wired issues try and identify the switch(es).
Voice

For Voice issues, confirm that the issue is widespread and occurring for many users, and assign the incident to the appropriate EI - Voice Services group since we have no tools to identify these issues. However, see if it is possible to check if wired networking is working because a wired internet outage can knock out the phones. Contact Voice by calling the main TD line and selecting the Voice option.

Wired

For wired issues, identify if the issue is affecting a dorm or an academic building.

If the issue is occurring in a dorm:

Use the NAP to look up the user s authentication history and see if you can identify the problems with switches. Check with several users on several ports with several devices to see if there is an outage. Typically, if one user reports one device problem on a switch, we will send someone out and assume it is a problem with a port. Only when several users in multiple locations in a building call in about a problem do we usually realize there is an issue with the switch.

If the issue is occurring in an Academic building:

Academic buildings have different networking setups than the dorms and often do not even have DHCP enabled. We want to talk to an IT staff member for this issue if possible. Failing that, confirm with the caller that the issue affects many users and report to the NOC. We do not have the tools to identify which switch has the problem.

Wireless

Juniper Mist has access to all of the wireless APs supported by the NOC. Firstly identify which networks the issue is on. All of the RUWireless networks can be escalated to NOC, however SoE, CS, and other departmental networks should be referred to the contact people for that network.

For a NOC supported network:

Try and identify the wireless AP(s) that are experiencing problems. This can be done by looking at the user s AP connection history to see if you can identify the AP experiencing problems. Signs an AP is having problems:

Users report they are in the area and cannot connect, but the AP has no association attempts or connected users.
The AP does not appear on Juniper Mist.
Users who are reporting issues are all connected on the same AP.

For issues that are not only voice, during business hours, assign to EI - Network Operations Center with the details.

Ask if the user is departmental IT or if there is an IT person you can speak to, as these individuals may be able to provide you with more accurate information.
If there is an IT person, they should be able to speak directly to the NOC, and you can provide them the NOC phone number.
Ask how many people are experiencing the issue.
Ask what area the issue covers.
Ask if the issue affects ResNet, RUWireless, Phone services, departmental internet, or internet in an administrative/classroom building.
For RUWireless check that the issue affects both regular & secure.
RUWireless

See if you can identify the problem AP.

Lookup the user to see their association history
Check the status of the AP that they used to connect to at their location
E.x. abc123 yesterday was connected to hill-test-ap-1 in his office. However, we cannot locate that AP on Cisco Prime OR we can locate it, but no users are on it.
Once we identify which AP has the problem, we want to contact NOC. We cannot always isolate the problem AP, but we should give it our best guess.
When reporting the issue, specify that the issue occurs on secure, regular, or other.
Create a tag for the issue and tag related tickets.
Assign to EI - Network Operations Center.
RUatHome

See if you can identify the problem switch

See if you can identify the switch by checking the user s wired association history.
The problem may require some unorthodox investigation.
Check that port configurations are correct.
Check that switch configurations are correct.
Check if the issue affects 1 switch, an entire building, or several buildings.
See if only specific devices or authentication methods are affected.
EX: windows PCs, all PCs, all MBed devices, only Apple TVs
Same as above, we will reach out to NOC once we have identified the issue or we have exhausted our ability to identify the issue.

" KB0014152 Network Network - Escalation Protocols for Tickets to TD "

The following steps will need to be taken to escalate tickets regarding RUatHome or RUWireless issues that have been thoroughly troubleshot and are ready for assistance from second-level support (TD).

Ensure the ticket being worked on has all the following information:

List of all affected users and their NetID's.
Location on Campus.
All affected device types, versions, and MAC addresses (Wireless/Wired).
All troubleshooting steps we have taken up to that point.
All other associated incidents.
Include Juniper Mist information where applicable.

Once all this information has been collected, reassign the ticket to EI - Network Access Technologies (for wireless issues) or EI - Network Operation Center (for wired issues).



" KB0014243 Network Network - Halls - Marvin Apartments "

NOC has fixed wireless access issues that previously existed in Marvin Apartments. Therefore, personal routers are no longer permitted in this building. They may, however, utilize unmanaged switches if they need additional wired ports, like other Residence Halls.

" KB0014185 Network Network - Help Desk Test Router "

The Help Desk Test Router is currently plugged into port 1601D (IP: 172.28.11.79).

SSID: HD_Test
Password: Rutgerss (Network Support password)

" KB0010944 Network Network - IP Address Ranges "

Below is the range of IP addresses for each of the networks supported at Rutgers and the range for networking devices at Rutgers. You can confirm if a user is connected to the right network by checking the first two numbers in an IP address.

RUWireless (Guest) - 192.168.X.X
RUWireless Secure - 172.31.X.X, 172.27.X.X, and 172.25.X.X (faculty and staff only)
Resnet - 10.72.0.0/15
eduroam - 172.26.204.0/22
Switches - 172.28.X.X/172.29.X.X
Access Points - 172.29.128.X and up (note these are very similar to switches)

Other department-specific networks may have the following IP addresses: 172.X.X.X, 128.6.x.x, 165.x.x.x

For example, the Help Desk Ethernet has an IP range of 172.16.X.X. If a user is on one of these networks, they will likely need to speak to a department IT person. The Help Desk can only provide general troubleshooting for wired networks besides Resnet.

" KB0014275 Network Network - Printing - Math Library Printing "

Printing Issues

Patrons of the Mathematical Sciences and Physics Library in the Hill Center are directed to visit the Help Desk if they cannot print or have concerns about their print balance due to a file that did not print successfully. For patrons unable to print, the Help Desk should perform the following troubleshooting steps:

Confirm their NetID is active
Confirm they can log into CAS successfully
Re-install the PaperCut Mobility software, instructions are located here: Rutgers: Print Management
If the patron cannot print, contact the ARC supervisor line at 848-445-2760 to confirm whether the print job is visible.
Balance Adjustments

For patrons requesting a print balance adjustment, a supervisor must speak with them and fill out the following form. Sup may also need to contact the ARC supervisor's line to confirm additional information for the job(s) that failed to print.

Patron Balance Adjustment Instructions

" KB0014343 Network Network - Rebuild Network Settings "

There are some strange network issues that are caused by corruption or bugs in the device's network settings that cannot be easily reset or removed and may require you to rebuild the network settings. The method will differ depending on the device's operating system.

Remember, if the user is a walk-in, make sure they have signed the remediation form.

Windows OS

To clear these settings on Windows devices:

Open the Command prompt.
Type "netsh winsock reset".

The command will clear the network settings.

MacOS

On MacOS, it is rather involved. So, as a last resort in getting MacOS connected to RUWireless Secure, use the following instructions. Speak to a supervisor before attempting this, and if the user is a walk-in, make sure they have signed the remediation form.

Go to Wi-Fi status menu > Turn Wi-Fi Off.
From the Finder, hit Command + Shift + G then enter the following path:
/Library/Preferences/SystemConfiguration/
Within this folder, select the following files:
com.apple.airport.preferences.plist
com.apple.network.identification.plist
com.apple.wifi.message-tracer.plist
NetworkInterfaces.plist
preferences.plist
(any other .plist files related to wifi, network, internet, 802.1x, etc.)
Move all these files into a folder on your desktop and name it "Wi-Fi Backups" or anything you like.
Reboot your Mac.
Go to the Wi-Fi status menu again and turn the Wi-Fi back on.

This should force OS X to create all network configuration files.

" KB0014248 Network Network - Retrieving IP Addresses "

IP addresses are necessary to troubleshoot wired and wireless network issues properly. To retrieve IP addresses, please review the steps for the appropriate operating system:

MacOS
Open System Preferences/Settings and select Network. This can also be done by clicking the Wifi icon and selecting Open Network Preferences.
Select Ethernet or WiFi depending on connection type and click Advanced at the bottom of the dialogue box.
Select the TCP/IP tab; it will be listed as IPv4 Address.
Alternatively, it may be retrieved from the command line.
Open Terminal.
You can find it in Applications > Utilities, or search Terminal using Mac Smart Search (Command+Space).
Type "ifconfig" in the Terminal.
Under one of the interfaces (i.e., en0, en1) it will be listed as inet .
Windows
Search for command prompt on the device. Alternatively, press Windows+R and type in "cmd".
Type "ipconfig /all" and hit Enter.
Scroll down to Ethernet or Wireless adapters.
It will be listed as IPv4 Address.
Linux
If the user has Network Manager installed (has wifi/connection icon).
Right-click on the notification icon and select Connection Information.
It will be listed under IPv4 address.
If the user does not have Network Manager
Have the user open Terminal.
Enter the following command "ip addr show".
Under one of the interfaces (i.e., en0, en1) it will be listed as inet .
Android
Navigate to Settings.
Tap on WiFi.
Tap the network the user is connected to (i.e., RUWireless_Secure).
It will be listed as IP address.
iPhone
Open the Settings App.
Tap on WiFi.
Tap the blue i icon next to the network the user is connected to (i.e., RUWireless_Secure).
The IP address will be listed under IPV4 address.

" KB0014730 Network Network - RUatHome - ResNet "

Table of Contents
Requirements for using the portal
Things to note
Wireless
Wired
Escalations
Help Desk Tools
Check the status of a user's Wired device bypass (ServiceNow form submission)
Confirm a user has an active Passphrase (Pre-shared Key or PSK)
Lookup devices connected via Passphrase to a specific user

RUatHome is for smart devices not capable of installing the software to connect to RUWireless Secure. The network is only broadcast in the residence halls.

Requires each resident to visit a web portal to receive a personal Passphrase (password) that they will use on their IOT devices.

Instructions can be found at: https://ithelp.rutgers.edu/sp?id=kb_article_view&sysparm_article=KB0012481

Criteria for devices:

Smart devices
2.4 GHz or 5GHz compatible
Non-802.1x devices - it should not have Secure W2 (for RUWireless Secure) installed on the device. If it supports RUWireless Secure, it should not be on the RUatHome network.

Laptops, tablets, and phones should still use RUWireless Secure, except if the phone is being used to configure a smart device.

Requirements for using the portal

Only users with a Student role can access the Passphrase Portal. Faculty/Staff living in residence halls should be able to as well, after they are added to a specific RAD group to grant them access. If a non-student needs access to the portal:

Verify the user is a faculty/staff member, with no student role, who resides in on-campus housing.
Confirm with FT.
FT will need to put them in a specific campus specific RAD group. RAD Groups for FT reference:
Cmd RUCIT HD-RUatHome Non Student
Oit Eisd Css HD-RUatHome Non Student
Oit Esd Runit Hd-RUatHome Non Student
FT will also need to add the user to EI-NOG-Mist-FacStaffResidents regardless of which campus they are at.

The Portal can be accessed using the link in the KA or by directing the user to: go.rutgers.edu/ruathome

Things to note
Wireless
Passphrase, Passkey, Pre-shared Key, and Password are different terms, but they are all the same thing.
RUatHome supports 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz devices.
The Help Desk cannot see, change, or update a user's Passphrase. If needed, the user will have to generate a new Passphrase through the portal. Doing so invalidates their existing Passphrase after 24 hours, so connected devices will stay connected for another day.
The user cannot see what devices they have registered to their Passphrase, or which ones have an active RUatHome connection. Only Supervisors with access to MIST can see this.
Devices previously connected to RUIOT last year will have to reconnect to the updated RUatHome network following the new process.
Devices that connect to RUatHome will have to switch back to RUWireless in non-residence hall buildings (ex, phones or laptops).
Wireless Routers are not permitted anywhere.
The capability, called "personal WLAN," will be introduced at a later date. Currently, the network is one large segment with no personal segmentation. So, two devices do not need to use the same Passphrase to communicate with each other; they only need to both be on RUatHome. However, this means a user may see all devices on the RUatHome network.
If a user would like to connect a device to this network, please let them know that we cannot guarantee that their device will function properly. As an example, many smart home devices have difficulty associating with this network, and even if they can connect, they often have limited functionality.
Printers are not allowed, but can technically be set up for RUatHome. Though if it is on RUatHome, anyone would be able to discover it and print to it; therefore, it should never be recommended, and they should connect to the printer via USB.
The device limit has been set to 10 behind the scenes; however, do not state or share this with users. This limit is set under the premise that anyone who hits the 10 devices is probably abusing the system and will either back off or reach out to the Help Desk. These users can then be advised of workarounds to install Secure or move to a wired connection, where possible.
Wired

All wired devices will require users to submit a request via a ServiceNow form to get their device connected. If a device has been registered within the last year, the user will not need to fill out the form again.

Prior to submitting the form, the user needs to connect their device to a network port and power it on, to establish a connection to the network, so the MAC address can be properly bypassed by the Network team.

Please note that any user living in the Residence Halls with a student role should fill out the EI - Wired ResNet Device Bypass form.
Users living in the Residence Halls without a student role, should fill out the EI - MAC Authentication Bypass (MAB) form.
Wired Notes
Wired connections should be for desktops, and optionally gaming consoles, or smart TVs if they want. Laptops can also be wired, but we do not advertise this as they should be using RUWireless Secure instead.
Windows 10 Home and Windows 11 Home do not support native login with 802.1x using NetID and NetID Password. This is only supported on Windows Pro or Enterprise devices. They will instead need to use the ServiceNow form to submit their device's MAC address.
If it is a Windows device, they will need to disable the Wired Autoconfig service for it to connect properly.
Unmanaged Switches should not need to be registered and should work automatically.
Ethernet Adapters will need to have their MAC address added via the form if the device is not capable of 802.1x Network Authentication.
Once a request is submitted on the ServiceNow form for a Wired device MAB, the NOC will process the request, typically within 48 hours.
If someone asks when their bypass will be done, after verifying the status for their RITM is still Open in ServiceNow, you may say:
"Your device registration request is in progress and will be completed within 48 hours. We will do our best to get it done sooner. If possible, you may use the wireless network while we process your request."
There is only 1 Ethernet port available in each dorm/suite. There is no option for a second port to be installed. If there is a physical issue with the port or faceplate, please confirm the following before having a supervisor assist you in escalating to inside plant:
Make sure it is a port/faceplate that is meant to be functioning. If its a suite/apartment, there are NO ports in the bedroom.
If you have checked that this port is intended to be functional, you must get the building, room number, and user contact information before escalating.
Escalations
If users are unable to see the RUatHome SSID, these reports should be escalated to the wireless team at EI - Network Access Technologies.
Problems with the Passphrase portal or registrations should be escalated to the NAC team at EI - Network Access Technologies (NAC).
Help Desk Tools

Supervisors can access MIST to look up more detailed information for devices on the Switches.

Check the status of a user's Wired device bypass (ServiceNow form submission)
Go to the Request Item list.
Click the Filter icon in the top right.
Enter the User's NetID in the Requested for field, then choose their name from the drop-down or hit Enter.
Click Run.




Click on the Request Item Number (RITM) to view the request and check on its current State.




The State field will show:
Closed Complete if it was successfully processed.
Open indicates it has not been processed yet.
Closed Incomplete means it was not processed and closed out for some other reason, such as the device being a wireless, not a wired device.
Confirm a user has an active Passphrase (Pre-shared Key or PSK)
Log in to MIST.
Go to Organization> Passphrases.




In the search field, type the NetID and hit Enter.
Review the Created Time and Expiration fields.




We can not view a user's Passphrase, nor reset it for them.
Lookup devices connected via Passphrase to a specific user
Log in to MIST.
Go to Clients > NAC Clients.




Change the org drop-down to Entire Org and adjust the date range if applicable (defaults to Today, with a maximum history of the last 7 days).




Enter the user's NetID in the search field and hit Enter.
You'll see a list of all devices that connected to RUatHome with that user's Passphrase.
The State column will indicate whether it is actively connected.
Green: Actively connected
Orange: No longer connected.
Click on Client Insights to see more information on that device.




Look under Client Events to see a list of actions that the device has undergone. Common events may include:

NAC Client Session: This means the cloud and AP are communicating.
Authorization and Association: When the Passphrase is connected and cached.
NAC Client IP Learned: The IP is learned for data history.
Client Roamed Away: The Device may have gone to sleep, or it may have moved out of range of the access point (such as walking through or out of a building).
Transmission Failure: Could not get a good connection from the access point.
Client Session Ended: Device has been disconnected from the network (usually by switching wifi off or to another network).
NAC COA Disconnect: The cloud disconnected the client.




Scroll down to Current Client Properties for more information to help identify which device it is, such as Hostname, Device Type, and Manufacturer.



" KB0019498 Network Network - Scheduling ResNet/RUWireless Dispatch Appointments "

There will be times when troubleshooting a networking issue over the phone does not result in a resolution. If that is the case, please speak with a Help Desk Supervisor so they can determine if the issue can be dispatched. Dispatch is a service offered by labs on all campuses, in which consultants visit the caller's residence to assist with networking issues in person.

For ITS dispatch appointments, go to the knowledge article on how to schedule them.

L2/Supervisors scheduling appointment
Determine if dispatch is an option that can help the user. Typically, dispatch can handle the following issues:

Router Setup
Wireless Survey
Virus Remediation / Computing Incident Response Team (CIRT) Ticket Issue
Connecting a device to Resnet / Ruwireless
Faceplate Repair
Determining if there are physical issues with a port.
Once dispatch is deemed suitable, create an incident task for the Incident.
Incident task, be sure to include the following:

What to bring to the appointment, and full details.

Most appointments with port-related issues will require the ResNet laptop, Fluke, and an Ethernet cable.
Wireless Survey equipment should include the ResNet Laptop, a wireless NIC, and, if deemed necessary, other equipment, such as a Fluke.
Assign the task to the proper campus
NB-Labs - Busch
NB-Labs - College Ave
NB-Labs - Cook/Douglass
NB-Labs - Livingston
Dispatch hours vary depending on the time of year. If communicating with the users via email, inform them to call the Help Desk to schedule an appointment to avoid back-and-forth over email.
If it is during dispatch hours, call over to the corresponding lab. Dispatch consultants can either take the dispatch right now if the availability works out or work with the user to schedule a future date. If no dispatch consultant is available, a Lab Supervisor can assist.
Busch - (848-445-2760)
College Avenue (Academic Building) - (848-932-0310)
Cook/Douglass - (848-932-9750)
Livingston - (848-445-3465)
If no dispatch consultant or Lab Supervisor is available, the Help Desk can schedule the appointment with the user via the calendar. They should then post the appointment information and TASK number in the esd_nb_hdlabs_dispatch channel on Slack.
https://outlook.office365.com/owa/calendar/hd_appoint@oit.rutgers.edu/bookings/
Please note that wireless surveys should be scheduled for 2 hours
After the dispatch appointment:
If the dispatch consultant can resolve the Incident, they will also reassign the incident Task.
If they are unable to resolve it, they will reach back out to the HD for further escalation (HD, NOC, etc.).
Canceling/rescheduling a dispatch appointment
Verify the user's contact info and appointment information vs what's in their Incident/Task and the bookings calendar.
Add a Work Note to the Incident Task listing why the appointment is being canceled/rescheduled.
Contact Full Time and request they cancel the appointment on the bookings calendar.
Post in the #esd_nb_hdlabs_dispatch slack channel:
Incident Number/Task Number [CAMPUS] Dispatch appointment for [DATE/TIME] was canceled by the user.
Handle the Task:
If canceling, mark the Task as Closed Skipped. Resolve the Incident if the user nIncident needs assistance with their issue; otherwise, handle the Incident appropriately.
Incident scheduling, assist the user with booking a new appointment, and update the Task accordTasky. Post the new appointment info in the #esd_nb_hdlabs_dispatch Slack channel.

" KB0015324 Network Network - Whitelist Mail-Relay "

OIT provides a service called mail relay for certain devices that cannot run a Mail Transfer Agent (MTA), such as printers and switches. These devices, which normally do not have user accounts, can be allowed to send email through a special server without first authenticating to that server with a username and password. Some other examples of this that we see at the Help Desk are emails sent from the generator, or PDUs (if you ve worked in Application Support).

This Service was previously known as the whitelist service, but it s a specialized form of whitelisting that should not be confused with other types of whitelisting. Devices that use this Service must be registered with the NOC using a unique IP address/hostname pair.

More information about the Mail Relay Service and how users can request it can be found on the Mail Relay Service page.

Process
Rutgers Unit Computing Managers (UCM) will complete the request form on the Rutgers Whitelist page. This form includes information such as

IP address of the device
Hostname of the device
Type of device
Whether or not it handles Protected Health Information (PHI)
If the information is incorrect, an error email is sent to Help@OIT with the subject incomplete mail relay request . A Service now incident will be created.
Help Desk will then work with the requester to resolve the problem. See the Problems section below for example situations. The mail relay tool does not retain information about rejected requests, so requestors must submit a new request after correcting the problem.
If a device handles PHI, an email will be sent requesting more information (a response template is available for these questions). Once the requester responds with the answers, a ServiceNow task must be created with the requester's IP and hostname, along with the provided answers. This task should be assigned to EAS - Messaging and Collaboration Services.
If the information is correct, the request is submitted to the mail administrators, who typically respond within 5 business days.
A device is approved to use one of two specific servers:

whitelist.rutgers.edu -- for simple devices (e.g., printers)
smarthost.rutgers.edu -- for devices that send mail through a web form or some other type of script
Help@OIT gets a courtesy copy of the approval email with the subject [IP address] approved mail relay request for each specific IP address. A Service Now incident will be created. Approved mail-relay requests can be assigned to the requester and resolved. If the requester experiences problems with requesting, Help@OIT works with them and the mail administrators to resolve their issues.
Types of Messages
ApprovedA A A

ServiceNow incident is created, which can be assigned to the requester and resolved.
May need some clarification for whitelist vs. smarthost server, or port number.
Incomplete

Action required.
Service Now incident created for the requester.
See the "Problems" section for more information.
Denied

Usually, because the device was previously approved.
Problems

The following are example entries, and how you would troubleshoot issues. A correctly registered device is listed as an example for comparison. If you face an issue that is not listed, please bring it to the attention of a full-time staff member.

Correctly registered device
The original request has

#hostname
recscan.rutgers.edu
#ip address
172.19.63.135
Connect to RUWireless Secure or use your Rutgers desktop. If you are on a different network, then use Rutgers VPN.
In a command prompt session,n you will look up both of the listed IP addresses and the listed hostname with the NsLookup command
Use the following commands to look up the IP address/hostname

PC (You can use the command prompt)

nslookup 128.6.68.193

Server: dns.rutgers.edu
Address: 128.6.1.1
Name: mx.rams.rutgers.edu
Address: 128.6.68.193
nslookup rams.rutgers.edu

Server: dns.rutgers.edu
Address: 128.6.1.1
Name: rams.rutgers.edu
Address: 128.6.68.193
MAC (you can use the terminal)

host 128.6.68.193

193.68.6.128.in-addr.arpa domain name pointer mx.rams.rutgers.edu.
host mx.rams.rutgers.edu

mx.rams.rutgers.edu has address 128.6.68.193
IP/host is not registered
Original request has

#hostname
rnp002673e4e355.rutgers.edu
#ip address
172.20.17.200
You can see it s not requested when looking it up:

amenti > host 172.20.17.200

host 200.17.20.172.in-addr.arpa. not found: 3(NXDOMAIN)
or amenti > host rnp002673e4e355.rutgers.edu
host rnp002673e4e355.rutgers.edu not found: 3(NXDOMAIN)
You would then ask the requester to work with NOC to register the device with a unique hostname/IP pair and resubmit the request.
IP/host is not properly registered
Example 1: IP is registered to two hostnames
Original request has

#hostname
davd125nd1.its.rutgers.edu
#ip address
172.16.12.176
IP is registered to two hostnames

amenti > host 172.16.12.176

176.12.16.172.in-addr.arpa domain name pointer davd125nd1.its.rutgers.edu.
176.12.16.172.in-addr.arpa domain name pointer bue106nd1.its.rutgers.edu.
You would then ask the requester to work with NOC to register the device with a unique hostname/IP pair and resubmit the request.
If there is a legitimate reason for multiple hosts to be registered to a single IP like this, one should be the A record and the others C-names. An

A-record (Address record) is the official hostname associated with an IP address.
C-names (Canonical name records) are nicknames for the A-record.
Example 2: Two hostnames are registered to the same IP address, even though the IP address is registered to only one of them.
Original request has

#hostname
steps.rutgers.edu
#ip address
172.16.91.20
When looking it up, you will see

niflheim> host steps.rutgers.edu

steps.rutgers.edu has the address 172.16.91.20
niflheim> host 172.16.91.20

20.91.16.172.in-addr.arpa domain name pointer dr-steps.rutgers.edu.
niflheim> host dr-steps.rutgers.edu

dr-steps.rutgers.edu has address 172.16.91.20
You would then ask the requester to work with NOC to register the device with a unique hostname/IP pair and resubmit the request.
It is important to look up both items in the submitted pair to confirm the issue.
Example 3: IP is registered to a hostname, but the hostname is registered to a different IP address.
Original request has

#hostname
charlie.rutgers.edu
#ip address
172.19.25.89
When looking it up, you will see

amenti> host 172.19.25.89

89.25.19.172.in-addr.arpa domain name pointer bus.rutgers.edu.

amenti> host bus.rutgers.edu.
bus.rutgers.edu has the address 172.19.25.89
amenti> host charlie.rutgers.edu
charlie.rutgers.edu has address 172.19.25.86
amenti> host 172.19.25.86
86.25.19.172.in-addr.arpa domain name pointer charlie.rutgers.edu.
You would then respond, asking the requester to resubmit the request with the correct IP/hostname pair.
Example 4: The hostname is registered to two IP addresses, rather than a single unique one.
Original request has

#hostname
rufasbabiweb.rutgers.edu
#ip address
128.6.41.96
When looking it up, you will see

niflheim> host 128.6.41.96
96.41.6.128.in-addr.arpa domain name pointer rufasbabiweb.rutgers.edu.
niflheim> host rufasbabiweb.rutgers.edu
rufasbabiweb.rutgers.edu has the address 128.6.41.97
rufasbabiweb.rutgers.edu has the address 128.6.41.96
niflheim> host 128.6.41.97
97.41.6.128.in-addr.arpa domain name pointer rufasbabiweb.rutgers.edu.
You would then ask the requester to work with NOC to register the hostname with a single IP address and resubmit the request.
IP/host does not resolve to each other
Example 1: wrong hostname or IP
The original request has

#hostname
charlie.rutgers.edu
#ip address
172.19.25.89
IP is properly registered, but to a different hostname

amenti> host 172.19.25.89
89.25.19.172.in-addr.arpa domain name pointer bus.rutgers.edu.
amenti> host bus.rutgers.edu.
bus.rutgers.edu has the address 172.19.25.89
hostname is properly registered, but to a different IP address

address host
charlie.rutgers.edu has the address 172.19.25.86
amenti> host 172.19.25.86
86.25.19.172.in-addr.arpa domain name pointer charlie.rutgers.edu.
You would then respond, asking the requester to resubmit their request with a proper IP/hostname pair
Example 2: typo in hostname as provided
The original request has

#hostname
n7225-frm325e01.rad.rutgers.edu
#ip address
172.26.21.14
But the device is registered under a slightly different hostname (fPm versus fRm)

niflheim> host 172.26.21.14
14.21.26.172.in-addr.arpa domain name pointer n7225-fpm325e01.rad.rutgers.edu.
You would then respond by mentioning the typo and asking the requester to resubmit.
Another type of typo: hostname entered as email address

#hostname
canond64eb4@rutgers.edu

Additional NOC and DNS Forms can be found on the TD Networking page.

Device Handles PHI
The original request has

#handles PHI
True
In the Service Now incident, the Response Template Mail Relay- PHI Questions
More information needs to be requested, as the request is still held even though all other parts are complete/accurate. Send them the information & questions below,w and the responses will be passed along to the admins.

The mail relay admins need additional information to process this request, as your response indicated that restricted data (PHI/NPPI) will be transmitted through this system.
What is the nature of the restricted data (PHI/NPPI) involved? Please refer to the Data Classification guide if you are unsure whether the data is truly restricted.
Can this device use encrypted email transmission (e.g., TLS)?
Will the use of mail relay involve the transmission of restricted data?
Any additional comments/information on the data to be transferred?
Do you agree that you will set up your device to use encrypted mail transmission to transmit data through the Mail Relay service, as its transmission may involve restricted data (PHI/NPPI)? Does the device already handle email?
Example 1:
The original request has

#handles mail
yes
Example 2:
The original request has

#handles mail
unknown
But the host command shows

amenti> host health-4-403.rutgers.edu
health-4-403.rutgers.edu has the address 172.19.21.9
health-4-403.rutgers.edu mail is handled by 7 ccf.rutgers.edu.
Devices that have user accounts or otherwise already handle mail are not permitted to use the Service.
Explain the Service Requestor to the Mail Relay page for details.
IP/host is properly registered, but you still got a rejection email
Check #admin comments in the request

#admin comments
is already in WL
This device had previously been approved. There is no need to resubmit the request.
If, when looking up the IP/hostname pair, you find it is properly registered, ask the requester whether they recently registered it.
They may have gotten the OK from the NOC, but submitted the request before the info had time to propagate.
In that case, explain this and ask them to resubmit the request.
The device was approved, but the requester cannot send mail successfully
Correct configuration information:

Server name: whitelist.r.e or smarthost.r.e., as appropriate
Server type: SMTP (POP/IMAP are for incoming mail only)
Authentication: none
Security: TLS
Port: 25. If that fails, try 587. 465 is not approved for this Service. Servicequesta Service to a new Service, keeping the original hostname
Access to the whitelisting servers is by IP address rather than hostname.
The requester must resubmit the request with a new IP address.
[or will root accept email on this?] [let s go with resubmit until root tells us otherwise]
If none of the above helps, ask when the Service worked successfully. What has changed regarding the device since then?
The requester is asking for an update on the request
The Help Desk does not get copies of successfully submitted requests. They go directly to the mail admins, so we have to ask them.
Note: The Service has a 5-business-day turnaround

" KB0010999 Network - Wired Network - Wired - Broken Ports "

When a user in the dorms calls in about a broken Ethernet port, do the following:

Make sure the student s cable is plugged into the right port. The user should be plugged into a black (data) port, not a gray (voice) one. The port number, if visible, would also end in D or V for a data or voice port, respectively.
Verify the student is using an Ethernet cable. (To check if the cable is working properly, the user can check with a roommate s cable to observe if it s a cable or port issue.) Replacement cables of various lengths are available at many Rutgers bookstores.
If one port isn t working and the other is, advise the caller that dispatch will need to test the port. Speak to a supervisor for assistance with Dispatching a ticket for onsite assistance. After it s checked and confirmed by dispatch that the port is indeed broken, the issue can be escalated to the relevant group for remediation/repair.
If the ethernet jack is pushed in, speak to a supervisor to approve the ticket for dispatch. This also applies to broken coaxial jacks used by RUTV. You should also request the user email in a picture of the port if they are willing and able to do so.
If a dispatch or network-trained Consultant determines that the issue is with the user cabling and requires repair, we create a Task Incident and assign it to EI - Inside Plant - Cabling Repair - DORM/RESIDENTIAL for escalation.

" KB0014151 Network - Wired Network - Wired - Escalating Out Wired Dorm Issues (TD Dorm Infrastructure Repair) "

Reassign ticket to EI - Inside Plant - Cabling Repair - DORM/RESIDENTIAL.

Reasons for escalating a dorm issue to EI include:

Broken Box (the box that houses the Ethernet jacks in a room)
Faceplate replacement
Damaged In-Wall Wiring
Damaged COAX (TV port)

For more information regarding Escalations to EI - Inside Plant - Cabling Repair - DORM/RESIDENTIAL, click here.

For issues where the problem is identified to be an issue with the switch:

Email to noc@rutgers.edu with details on the switch, what the problem was, and the steps you took to identify.

This includes the following:

If a port on the switch is dead.
If a port was not configured correctly

In this case, follow the instructions to reconfigure the port.
In the email, include the new configuration you made.
A switch is not configured correctly

Again, follow the guide to identify this issue.
Do not make any changes to the switch, simply notify NOC.
If the temperature is extremely high in the switch closet.

Approximately 85 degrees fahrenheit or above.
Officially the switches can endure 105 degrees fahrenheit.
Speak to a Supervisor or FT familiar with switch closest before escalating for this, as the switch closets are usually warm.
Any other miscellaneous problem that has to do with switch behavior but not with wiring.

" KB0016873 Network - Wired Network - Wired - Ethernet Cable Types "

Ethernet Cable General Information

Ethernet cables come in several varieties, differentiated by their supported frequencies and tolerance for interference. New cables are typically Cat5e. A list of standard specifications is available at the end of the article.

There are two valid configurations for ethernet cables: straight-through and crossover however, two bad wiring configurations, reversed & split pair. Originally, straight-through cables were used for connections between two types of networked devices, while crossover cables were used for the same connections. For example, a PC router connection would be straight-through, while a router-router connection would be a crossover. However, modern networking equipment is equipped with the Auto MDI-X protocol, which enables communication between two devices regardless of straight-through or crossover. However, reversed pair or split pair cables will not work. These failure cases will be marked with red text on the yellow fluke. Cables with breaks will appear as unconnected ends and will also not function.



Category 3
UTP
10 Mbps
16 MHz
Features/Usage:
Two-line telephone systems
10BASE-T networks
Alarm system installation





Category 5
UTP
10 to 100 Mbps
100 MHz
Features/Usage:
Only for older hardware that needs outdated hardware





Category 5e
UTP
1,000 Mbps
100 MHz
Features/Usage:
Most popular cable
Supports gigabit speeds
Small space installation
Used in residential areas





Category 6
UTP or STP
1,000 to 10,000 Mbps
250 MHz
Features/Usage:
Tightly twisted, with two or more twists per centimeter
Only supports 37-55 meters when transmitting 10 Gbps speeds





Category 6a
STP
10,000 Mbps
500 MHz
Features/Usage:
Thicker than Category 6 Cables - meaning less flexible
Long-run options in offices and homes
Less susceptible to interference and crosstalk





Category 7
SSTP
10,000 to 40,000 Mbps
600 MHz
Features/Usage:
Can transmit 40 Gbps at 50 meters
Can transmit 100 Gbps at 15 meters
Extensive shielding, which results in it being relatively stiff
Used in data centers and enterprise networks
Not approved as the cable standard for telecommunication







Category 8
SSTP/Shielded
25,000 to 40,000 Mbps
2000 MHz
Features/Usage:
Ideal when the distance between units is short
Backward compatible with previous categories of ethernet cables





" KB0014261 Network - Wired Network - Wired - How to use the Fluke "

The Help Desk and Computing Labs have yellow ethernet testers called Flukes. Each location has its own Fluke, so be sure to note its availability.

The Fluke has several troubleshooting functions, including:

Determining cable length.
Detecting broken wires.
Checking if an ethernet jack is live.

The most commonly used menus on the Fluke are AutoTest and Cable.

AutoTest

The AutoTest function provides critical information about the wall port, including:

IP address of the switch.
Switch name.
Blade/port number.
Steps to Use AutoTest
Plug one end of the cable into the top port on the Fluke.
Connect the other end to the wall port.
Allow the Fluke to run its tests.
Record the displayed information to include in the incident task.
Troubleshooting
If no information is displayed:
The port might be error disabled or misconfigured.
A red X indicates that the Fluke does not detect a connection. This suggests a failure.
Retry the AutoTest using a dispatch cable:
If the dispatch cable displays the correct information, the user's ethernet cable is likely faulty.
If the dispatch cable also fails, the issue is likely with the port.
Ethernet Cable Check

The Cable menu allows you to test the functionality of an ethernet cable.

Steps to Use Ethernet Cable Check
Plug one end of the ethernet cable into the top port of the Fluke.
Plug the other end into the left side of the Fluke.
From the main menu, select Cable.
Observe the results:
A valid cable configuration will pass the test.
An invalid configuration will show:
Breaks in the lines, or
Red error text indicating an issue.
A red X indicates the cable is completely nonfunctional.
Wiremap Check

Use the Wiremap Check to detect breaks in the in-wall wiring.

Steps to Use Wiremap Check
Insert the Wireview/loopback device into the user's wall port.
In the switch closet:
Locate the cable connected to the wall port.
Disconnect it from the switch and plug it into the upper port of the Fluke.
Run the Cable Check on the Fluke.
Review the results:
Any breaks in the wiring will be identified.
Next Steps

Escalate any issues involving broken in-wall wiring to the Network Supervisor or Full-Time Staff.



" KB0014228 Network - Wired Network - Wired - Newark Residence Hall Ports "

Woodward

All ports active (bedrooms and living rooms)

Talbot

All ports active (bedrooms and living rooms)

University Square

Floors 1-11: All ports active in the living rooms. To activate ports in the bedrooms, a request must be made to the building Area Director.
Floors 12-13: All ports active

15 Washington

All ports active (only in living rooms)

" KB0018638 Network - Wired Network - Wired - Port VLAN changes "

Virtual local area network (VLAN) changes to networking ports will now be done by Fac/Staff FT and After Hours FT staff. This is following the decommissioning of the SWiM tool that local IT previously used to make these changes.

Requests will be submitted through the Port Change Request form (link visible only to fac/staff users) on ServiceNow, and the designated staff will make those changes.

Any calls regarding the status of any submitted changes should be directed to the associated Request Item (RITM)/Service Catalog Task (SCTask) for the user in ServiceNow, for any updates. Should any changes need to be expedited based on the request from local IT, the user can:

Email NOC@rutgers.edu
Use Slack and message in the #help-ei-noc channel
Call 848-445-7541 option 1, and follow the menu options to report a critical service outage or connect with on-call support teams
NOC Regular Hours: Monday Friday: 8:30 a.m. 5 p.m.
FT can check for staff who may be available to process their request.

" KB0011005 Network - Wired Network - Wired - Router Policy "

Users cannot use a wireless connection with routers since doing so will cause interference with the Rutgers wireless networks. Users can have unmanaged switches if they need additional ports in their room, but routers are not allowed in any capacity.

Previously, users residing in Marvin Apartments have been allowed to use the wireless connection. As described in this knowledge article, NOC has since fixed the wireless issues in Marvin Apartments. Personal routers are not allowed in any residential building.

Please provide the following if a user wishes to know who created the policy and why it was implemented:

"OIT and ResLife have worked together to put in a NO ROUTER POLICY that would create a healthy network, improving RUWireless coverage. Other universities have successfully implemented similar policies with 802.1X authentication. Since 802.1X already exists through RUWireless Secure, ResNet also uses the same authentication method."

" KB0011007 Network - Wired "Network - Wired - Speeds, Bandwidth and Traffic" "

What connection speeds can a user expect on the Residential Network?
The University offers Gigabit Internet, allowing a maximum speed of up to 2000 Mbps (Megabits per second) or 2Gbps (Gigabits per second), in the residence halls.
The Internet bandwidth allocated to RUWireless is capped at 2Gbps; however, internal University traffic is not metered.
Despite such a high-speed cap, users are not expected to see speeds nearing the cap. The highest expected speeds would be approaching 1Gbps on the ResNet networks or slightly over 100Mbps for wireless devices on RUWireless, RUWireless Secure, eduroam, or resnetiot.
Users connected to ResNet via Ethernet will generally receive much higher average speeds than WiFi connections.
The minimum speed the Help Desk guarantees in residences is 10Mbps on average. Any users reporting speeds below this threshold should have their tickets brought to Network Support for further investigation and may require either a Wireless Survey Dispatch or Escalation appointment.
Note that these speeds are variable. Actual network speed will vary based on several factors, including but not limited to the connection speed of the external sites, the port speed of a computer s network card, high AP utilization, or general network congestion.
What is the difference between external and internal traffic?
It is considered external traffic if you are connecting to Google, YouTube, or other such sites. Any websites hosted within the Rutgers network are internal and will be unaffected by the speed caps. A good guideline for checking if a website is internal to the Rutgers network is checking the URL of the website. Sites ending in rutgers.edu (e.g. my.rutgers.edu or sakai.rutgers.edu) are generally internal sites, and the speed cap will not affect data transmission rates to and from these sites.
It is important to note that some websites affiliated with the University are not hosted within the Rutgers network, although these sites are sometimes linked to Rutgers websites. For information that is downloaded or uploaded from these sites, the speed cap will affect any data transmitted.

" KB0014254 Network - Wired Network - Wired - Switches - Errdisabled Status "

If several MAC addresses appear on a port in rapid succession, it may error disable. For first-time offenses, restart the port on the switch. If the issue occurs frequently (i.e. every few minutes, hours, or even once a day), we want to investigate whether the user has an unusual device plugged in or if the issue occurs on a different port and escalate the issue. Routers and hubs, in particular, cause this issue more than other devices.

Confirm the following for Multihost:

User is getting media disconnect
Port shows as errdisabled on switch
Command "show interfaces status err-disabled" lists "security-violation" as reason
If user has a router connected to the port and they have confirmed the router is connected correctly and is not bridging

Solution: Have FT set multihost/port security on the port and ensure [multihost] is added to the subject.

Confirm the following for BPDUGuard violation

User is getting media disconnect
Port shows as errdisabled on switch
Command "show interfaces status err-disabled" lists "BPDUGuard" as reason
User is connecting a router to the port

Solution: Confirm router make/model and have the user check that "AP mode" on the router is disabled (may be called other things); If a user cannot find this setting, we can send dispatch. Once router is configured correctly, re-enable the port.

" KB0014256 Network - Wired Network - Wired - Switches - Multihost "

If an 802.1x port is error disabling, it may result from multiple devices being seen on the port. If this is the case, FT can enable multi-host on the port to prevent disabling.

Example:

#show int status err-disabled

Port      Name               Status       Reason               Err-disabled
Vlans
Gi4/45    3021 327 3-8367    err-disabled security-violation
Gi4/46    3022 327 3-8367    err-disabled security-violation

#show log

Sep  3 17:23:30: %AUTHMGR-5-SECURITY_VIOLATION: Security violation onthe interface GigabitEthernet4/46, new MAC address (0000.0000.0000) isseen.AuditSessionID  Unassigned
Sep  3 17:23:30: %AUTHMGR-5-SECURITY_VIOLATION: Security violation onthe interface GigabitEthernet4/46, new MAC address (0000.0000.0000) isseen.AuditSessionID  Unassigned
Sep  3 17:23:30: %PM-4-ERR_DISABLE: security-violation error detected onGi4/46, putting Gi4/46 in err-disable state



" KB0014257 Network - Wired Network - Wired - Switches - Rogue DHCP Procedures "

A rogue DHCP is when a dorm student plugs their personal router into the wall jack incorrectly. Specifically, they plug the wall jack into a LAN (Local Area Network) port rather than a WAN (Wide Area Network) port. Personal routers have internal DHCP servers that assign IPs to all devices connected to the LAN ports. When a router s LAN port is plugged into the wall, it acts as a DHCP server for every computer connected to that switch. Any computer that needs to renew its network lease will receive an IP address of 192.168.x.x (most routers) or 10.1.x.x (Apple routers) instead of the typical 172.30.x.x IP that the Rutgers DHCP servers lease out.

Often, the first symptom of a rogue DHCP will appear when a user calls in complaining that they do not have internet connectivity and that they do not have a router. They will also have DHCP enabled, but will pull a 192.168.x.x or 10.1.x.x address after renewing their IP address.

While most rogues assign users an IP address in the 192.168.x.x or 10.1.x.x range, there are special cases where it may affect only the user's DNS servers or certain devices. Please see below for various scenarios.

Various Scenarios
If the user pulls a 192.168.x.x or 10.1.x.x address after renewing their DHCP lease, it is most likely a typical rogue. Please verify that the user's wireless NIC is disabled & DHCP and DNS are set to automatic on their Ethernet NIC (IPv4). Have the user run 'arp-a' to find the rogue's MAC address.
If the user is pulling a valid 172.30.x.x address but the user's DNS address is 192.168.x.x, you must statically assign the user's computer to the 192.168.x.x range. After that, ping the user's gateway address, then run 'arp-a' to find the rogue's MAC address.
If the user can get a valid Rutgers IP address and DNS name, but a router or Fluke cannot establish a lease, you will have to run Wireshark and analyze the capture to see if there are any conflicting DHCP offers on the local network.
Finding/confirming rogue

When following the call scripts, Help Desk consultants are instructed to go straight to ResNet when encountering the symptoms listed above. The ResNet Office consultant should confirm that DHCP is enabled, the wireless card is disabled, and the user is not using a proxy server. Once these are confirmed, ask the Help Desk consultant to have the user enter arp a into the command prompt and record the results in the ticket.

The arp command should display information similar to what is shown below. From here, you can obtain the MAC address corresponding to the user s current gateway address, which is the rogue DHCP server's address.

" KB0014258 Network - Wired Network - Wired - Switches - Switch commands "

Table of Contents
How to Log into the Switch:
Cisco IOS Switches ( # prompt)
Basic show commands
Making changes on IOS switch ports
Enabling and disabling ports
Port security
Port names
VLANs
Clear counters
VLAN shows up as routed
Cisco Cable Test
Logging
Configuring a port for 802.1x
How to tell if a switch is configured correctly
How to Log into the Switch:
Connect to the Rutgers VPN using Cisco AnyConnect
Open PuTTY
Select "Telnet" for Connection Type
Under Host Name, enter the IP Address of the switch
Enter your NetID
Enter your NetID Password
When you receive a Duo Push, press Allow
Cisco IOS Switches ( # prompt)

NOTE: If you re on an IOS switch, you ll need to copy any changes that you made (port names, VLAN change, etc.) to the switch s startup configuration file. This will make the change permanent and prevent loss of any changes if a power outage occurs. To do this, run the write memory command after you make your changes.

Basic show commands

[show int status] lists all the ports on the switch and their state

[show int (port)] shows detailed information of a specific port, which includes information such as the collisions that have appeared on the port

[show mac address-table] shows all MAC addresses currently detected on the switch

[show mac address-table address (MAC address)] searches for a specific MAC address

[show mac address-table int (port)] searches for what MAC address is connected to a specified port

[show cdp neighbors] shows any other switches that are connected to this one and the ports that they are connected on. A port can be specified with this command as well, and it will display the switch connected to that port.

[show version] - shows various information about the switch, including the switch model

[show auth sessions] - displays interface, MAC address, auth method (Dot1x, MAB, N/A), and status of active sessions

[show auth session int (port)] - displays detailed information for the port, including the runnable methods list, ts, which indicates whether dot1x is misconfigured

Using dot1x
Runnable methods list:
 Method State
 dot1x Authc Success
 mab Not run
dot1x misconfigured
Runnable methods list:
 Method State
 dot1x Authc Failed
 mab Not run
Using mab
Runnable methods list:
 Method State
 dot1x Failed over
 mab Authc Success
Restricted
Runnable methods list:
 Method State
 dot1x Failed over
 mab Failed over


[show aaa sessions] - displays authenticated usernames and IP addresses

[show epm session summary] - displays interface, IP address, SS,s and MAC address of active sessions

[show epm session ip (IP Address)] - displays auth method, RADIUS attributes of a specific client (useful for determining if a client is restricted because of an IPS block)

Making changes to the IOS switch ports

To make changes to any ports on an IOS switch, you must first follow these steps.

config t (This will enter configuration mode from a terminal)

On some older IOS switches, you will need to type enable instead
interface (port) (Go into interface mode for a specific port)

Note: You can interface into a range of ports by using the int range command.

Enabling and disabling ports

[shutdown] - shuts down the port that you re interfaced with

[no shutdown] - enables the port that you re interfaced with

Port security

[show port-security] - shows all ports on the switch that have port security enabled

[show port-security int (port)] - verifies your port security settings on a specific port

[switchport port-security mac-address (MAC address (optional))] - enables port security on the interface; you can specify the secure address

[no switchport port-security] - disables port security on the interface port

Port names

[description (name)] - changes port name

[no description] - leaves the description blank

VLANs

[show vlan] - shows information about every possible VLAN that ports on the switch can be configured for

[show interface trunk] - shows what VLANs are active on the switch

[switchport access vlan (VLAN #)] - assign a specific port to a VLAN

Clear counters

[clear counters (port)] - clears the counters for the specified port

VLAN shows up as routed

Run the commands:

[switchport]
[switchport host]
[switchport access vlan (VLAN #)]
Cisco Cable Test

Cisco IOS switches can run a variety of tests, including cable diagnostics. Use this to remotely determine if there is a cable break in the patch cable, wall cable, or user's cable.

Run the commands:

test cable-diagnostics tdr int gi#/#
show cable-diagnostics tdr int gi#/#

Output given will include the tested port, the rated speed, cable length (if determined), pair orientation, and line damage (if any). Please have a device plugged into the port to help ensure all lines are connected properly.

Logging

[show log] useful for finding MAC addresses that are not showing up via other methods. The first part of the show log command provides information about the logging system itself, while the part following Log Buffer contains the actual log.

From the show log, we can see that the last device authorized on this switch was 0018.f876.8c0f on Gi0/47. After it was authorized, the port was turned on.

as0.1x-hill027-hill#show log

------------------------------INFORMATION ABOUT THE LOG----------------------

Syslog logging: enabled (0 messages dropped, 0 messages rate-limited, 0 flushes, 0 overruns, xml disabled, filtering disabled)

No Active Message Discriminator.

No Inactive Message Discriminator.

Console logging: level debugging, 92241 messages logged, XML disabled,

filtering disabled

Monitor logging: level debugging, 670 messages logged, XML disabled,

filtering disabled

Buffer logging: level debugging, 92241 messages logged, XML disabled,

filtering disabled

Exception Logging: size (4096 bytes)

Count and timestamp logging messages: disabled

File logging: disabled

Persistent logging: disabled

No active filter modules.

Trap logging: level notifications, 65095 message lines logged

Logging to 165.230.241.66 (udp port 514, audit disabled,

authentication disabled, encryption disabled, link up),

65095 message lines logged,

0 message lines rate-limited,

0 message lines dropped by MD,

xml disabled, sequence number disabled

filtering disabled

Logging to 128.6.234.153 (udp port 514, audit disabled,

authentication disabled, encryption disabled, link up),

65095 message lines logged,

0 message lines rate-limited,

0 message lines dropped by MD,

xml disabled, sequence number disabled

filtering disabled

Logging to 128.6.1.3 (udp port 514, audit disabled,

authentication disabled, encryption disabled, link up),

65095 message lines logged,

0 message lines rate-limited,

0 message lines dropped by MD,

xml disabled, sequence number disabled

filtering disabled

------------------------------THE ACTUAL LOG STARTS HERE---------------------

Log Buffer (4096 bytes):

ab' for client (e8fc.af85.20d9) on Interface Gi0/48 AuditSessionID AC1CB8640000257BEB8CFFD1

Oct 3 17:15:11: %AUTHMGR-5-SUCCESS: Authorization succeeded for client (e8fc.af85.20d9) on Interface Gi0/48 AuditSessionID AC1CB8640000257BEB8CFFD1

Oct 3 17:15:12: %LINEPROTO-5-UPDOWN: Line protocol on Interface GigabitEthernet0/48, changed state to up

Oct 4 01:08:26: %LINEPROTO-5-UPDOWN: Line protocol on Interface GigabitEthernet0/47, changed state to down

Oct 4 01:08:41: %DOT1X-5-FAIL: Authentication failed for client (Unknown MAC) on Interface Gi0/47 AuditSessionID ^A

Oct 4 01:08:41: %AUTHMGR-7-RESULT: Authentication result 'no-response' from 'dot1x' for client (Unknown MAC) on Interface Gi0/47 AuditSessionID AC1CB8640000257CED4037BD

Oct 4 01:08:41: %AUTHMGR-7-FAILOVER: Failing over from 'dot1x' for client (Unknown MAC) on Interface Gi0/47 AuditSessionID AC1CB8640000257CED4037BD

Oct 4 01:09:00: %AUTHMGR-5-START: Starting 'mab' for client (0018.f876.8c0f) on Interface Gi0/47 AuditSessionID AC1CB8640000257CED4037BD

Oct 4 01:09:00: %MAB-5-SUCCESS: Authentication successful for client (0018.f876.8c0f) on Interface Gi0/47 AuditSessionID AC1CB8640000257CED4037BD

Oct 4 01:09:00: %AUTHMGR-7-RESULT: Authentication result 'success' from 'mab' for client (0018.f876.8c0f) on Interface Gi0/47 AuditSessionID AC1CB8640000257CED4037BD

Oct 4 01:09:01: %AUTHMGR-5-SUCCESS: Authorization succeeded for client (0018.f876.8c0f) on Interface Gi0/47 AuditSessionID AC1CB8640000257CED4037BD

Oct 4 01:09:01: %LINEPROTO-5-UPDOWN: Line protocol on Interface GigabitEthernet0/47, changed state to up

Oct 4 05:19:21: %LINEPROTO-5-UPDOWN: Line protocol on Interface GigabitEthernet0/48, changed state to down

Oct 4 05:19:36: %DOT1X-5-FAIL: Authentication failed for client (Unknown MAC) on Interface Gi0/48 AuditSessionID ^A

Oct 4 05:19:36: %AUTHMGR-7-RESULT: Authentication result 'no-response' from 'dot1x' for client (Unknown MAC) on Interface Gi0/48 AuditSessionID AC1CB8640000257DEE25F234

Oct 4 05:19:36: %AUTHMGR-7-FAILOVER: Failing over from 'dot1x' for client (Unknown MAC) on Interface Gi0/48 AuditSessionID AC1CB8640000257DEE25F234

Oct 4 05:21:29: %AUTHMGR-5-START: Starting 'mab' for client (e8fc.af85.20d9) on Interface Gi0/48 AuditSessionID AC1CB8640000257DEE25F234

Oct 4 05:21:29: %MAB-5-SUCCESS: Authentication successful for client (e8fc.af85.20d9) on Interface Gi0/48 AuditSessionID AC1CB8640000257DEE25F234

Oct 4 05:21:29: %AUTHMGR-7-RESULT: Authentication result 'success' from 'mab' for client (e8fc.af85.20d9) on Interface Gi0/48 AuditSessionID AC1CB8640000257DEE25F234

Oct 4 05:21:30: %AUTHMGR-5-SUCCESS: Authorization succeeded for client (e8fc.af85.20d9) on Interface Gi0/48 AuditSessionID AC1CB8640000257DEE25F234

Oct 4 05:21:30: %LINEPROTO-5-UPDOWN: Line protocol on Interface GigabitEthernet0/48, changed state to up

Oct 4 13:13:11: %LINEPROTO-5-UPDOWN: Line protocol on Interface GigabitEthernet0/47, changed state to down

Oct 4 13:13:26: %DOT1X-5-FAIL: Authentication failed for client (Unknown MAC) on Interface Gi0/47 AuditSessionID ^A

Oct 4 13:13:26: %AUTHMGR-7-RESULT: Authentication result 'no-response' from 'dot1x' for client (Unknown MAC) on Interface Gi0/47 AuditSessionID AC1CB8640000257EEFD7C52E

Oct 4 13:13:26: %AUTHMGR-7-FAILOVER: Failing over from 'dot1x' for client (Unknown MAC) on Interface Gi0/47 AuditSessionID AC1CB8640000257EEFD7C52E

Oct 4 13:13:46: %AUTHMGR-5-START: Starting 'mab' for client (0018.f876.8c0f) on Interface Gi0/47 AuditSessionID AC1CB8640000257EEFD7C52E

Oct 4 13:13:46: %MAB-5-SUCCESS: Authentication successful for client (0018.f876.8c0f) on Interface Gi0/47 AuditSessionID AC1CB8640000257EEFD7C52E

Oct 4 13:13:46: %AUTHMGR-7-RESULT: Authentication result 'success' from 'mab' for client (0018.f876.8c0f) on Interface Gi0/47 AuditSessionID AC1CB8640000257EEFD7C52E

Oct 4 13:13:47: %AUTHMGR-5-SUCCESS: Authorization succeeded for client (0018.f876.8c0f) on Interface Gi0/47 AuditSessionID AC1CB8640000257EEFD7C52E

Oct 4 13:13:47: %LINEPROTO-5-UPDOWN: Line protocol on Interface GigabitEthernet0/47, changed state to up

Configuring a port for 802.1x

Sometimes you will encounter a port that, for one reason or another, is not configured for 802.1x. The command show running-config int Gi#/# shows the current configuration of a specified port. If a port seems to be misconfigured, do the following:

NOTE If a user port is found to be on a wireless backhaul switch (i.e. wb01) we should repatch it to an access switch (i.e. as01) instead of reconfiguring.

config t

default int <Blade/Port>

int <[Gi]Blade/Port>

switchport mode access

switchport access vlan <VLAN>

description <DESCRIPTION>

IP access-group Restricted in

authentication event fail action authorize vlan <VLAN>

authentication event no-response action authorize vlan <VLAN>

authentication host-mode multi-auth

authentication violation restrict

authentication order dot1x mab

authentication port-control auto

authentication periodic

authentication timer reauthenticate server

mab

no snmp trap link-status

dot1x pae authenticator

dot1x timeout tx-period 5

spanning-tree portfast

Be sure to change the port to the appropriate VLAN. NOC must be notified of this change.

How to tell if a switch is configured correctly

If a switch does not allow devices to authenticate with correct credentials, it is typical on new switches. It may be that they were misconfigured and unable to communicate with the RADIUS server. If you run the command show running-config You will get the following:

as01-40cac300dc-njh#show running-config

Building configuration...

Current configuration: 23885 bytes

!

! Last configuration change at 09:44:50 Eastern Thu Sep 1 2016 by netmri-local14

! NVRAM config last updated at 09:44:50 Eastern Thu Sep 1 2016 by netmri-local14

!

version 15.0

no service pad

service timestamps debug datetime localtime

service timestamps log datetime localtime

service password-encryption

service compress-config

!

hostname as01-40cac300dc-njh

!

boot-start-marker

boot-end-marker

!

!

vrf definition Mgmt-vrf

!

address-family ipv4

exit-address-family

!

address-family ipv6

exit-address-family

!

logging discriminator LINKCH mnemonics drops UPDOWN

logging console warnings

enable secret 5 $1$9KPD$C2VvOwnfTozRKBb3ecfKI1

!

aaa new-model

!

!

aaa authentication login default group tacacs+ enable

aaa authentication enable default enable

aaa authentication dot1x default group radius

aaa authorization exec default group tacacs+ none

aaa authorization network default local

aaa accounting dot1x default start-stop group radius

!

!

.

.

.

radius-server host 172.21.17.3 auth-port 1812 acct-port 1813 key 7 08711E195B405D4444095C507F2A207D6764774A50475456520D0F04520D574E46

radius-server host 172.17.10.101 auth-port 1812 acct-port 1813 key 7 075F731B1C50415641105B58512B2F717C62607B4456415405020E0F55575A5548

To verify the authentication settings, the 6 lines below should appear:

aaa authentication login default group tacacs+ enable

aaa authentication enable default enable

aaa authentication dot1x default group radius

aaa authorization exec default group tacacs+ none

aaa authorization network default local

aaa accounting dot1x default start-stop group radius

To confirm the connection to the radius servers, look for the following:

radius-server host 172.21.17.3 auth-port 1812 acct-port 1813 key 7 08711E195B405D4444095C507F2A207D6764774A50475456520D0F04520D574E46

radius-server host 172.17.10.101 auth-port 1812 acct-port 1813 key 7 075F731B1C50415641105B58512B2F717C62607B4456415405020E0F55575A5548

If you come across a misconfigured switch, send an email to NOC with the switch name/IP.

" KB0014262 Network - Wired Network - Wired - When and How to Repatch "

As an escalation consultant, there are some cases where we can repair issues with wired connection without requiring NOC to rewire the wall. This article covers issues that can be resolved by repatching. Repatching is the replacement of the cable that connects the patch panel and the switch.

While troubleshooting a connection issue, you may use the Fluke to detect if a patch cable has any breaks in it. If the cable does have a break, and the port on the switch is working correctly, you can replace the cable with one of the HD cables. Use the new cable to connect the same ports on the patch panel and switch.

There are also cases where the cable is working fine, but the port on the switch is not working. In this scenario, if there are open ports on the switch that are not being used for anything, you can move the cable from the dead port on the switch to an open port. Then, log into the switch, reconfigure the port to the correct port settings, and label it with the correct room. Label the original switch as dead. After your appointment is complete and the user confirms that this resolved the issue, send an email to NOC to report the changes that you made.

If there are no open ports on the switch, under no circumstances should you unplug wires to make space. Send an email to NOC to let them know that the port on the switch is dead and is causing a problem for the user s port, noting that there were no open ports to which to repatch. NOC will handle the issue from this point.

" KB0014264 Network - Wired Network - Wired - Wired Escalations "

Using the fluke (Yellow Linkrunner)
The fluke is a device that gives relatively detailed information about what it is plugged into
Running auto-test while plugged into a switch will return information about the switch and connectivity.
All flukes are bypassed, so if the fluke is getting access-rejects but the bypass is still valid, there is likely an issue.
Plugging both ends of a wire into the fluke and running the cable test will find if the wire is damaged internally or no.t
If a wireview is plugged into a wall and the fluke into the other end of the wall, you can run the cable test to evaluate if the wall s internal wiring is still intact.
Steps to take during a wired escalation
First, always ensure the user is plugged into the correct data port.
Next, check the user s cable for damage.
Next, double-check that the fluke is working correctly.
If the fluke works, you can check the RN Laptop + ethernet adapter
If the RN Laptop can 802.1x through the ethernet adapter, the issue may be with the user s device
If the RN Laptop cannot 802.1x, the port may be misconfigured for 802.1x
If not, then continue to investigate the port configuration
This will entail checking the port on the switch and the switch configuration

If the port does not appear to be the source of the problem, there may be wiring issues.

The switch may have ports that are simply dead. This can be fixed by moving the cable from that port on the switch into an empty one and configuring it. Email should be sent to NOC detailing the fix and broken port. This is typically called a re-patch.
The cable from the patch panel to the switch may have gone bad. Simply replace the cable with one of ours.
Using the wireview or loopback, a break may be detected in the wall. EI - Inside Plant will need to repair the wiring.
If the faceplate is damaged, dispatch or escalation can fix it. However, if the box itself is damaged or hanging off the wall again EI - Inside Plant will need to be contacted.
Things to bring on a Wired Escalation

Most things will be helpful during a wired escalation, and it is recommended to err on the side of bringing more than less. A full kit entails the following:

Laptop
Ethernet NIC
Wireless NIC
Tools USB
Fluke
Multiple ethernet cables
Extra faceplate
Screwdriver
Wireview or loopback
Router
Consent form

We have access to the following switch closet keys, kept in our safe: - BCM, Campus master, dorm specific, and 2AA

The following items are helpful for extreme edge cases:

Locust SSID finder - to track down wireless networks
Minihub - to look at packets from a target device

" KB0014265 Network - Wireless Network - Wireless - Academic Buildings (capacity issues) "

If a user reports slow speeds in a non-residential building, confirm the following:

User is having RUWireless issues at classroom/lecture hall, but not at other locations.
User reports others in class are experiencing similar issues.
Both RUWireless and RUWireless Secure networks are visible.

If this is the case, collect:

NetIDs of users affected.
Mac addresses of devices affected.
Building and room numbers where the issue is occurring.

Inform the user that we will report the issue to our service provider to determine if there's a problem with the access point, but the Access Point may be at capacity. Refer the incident to the Network Operations Center (NOC) for escalation.

" KB0014268 Network - Wireless Network - Wireless - AP behavior & configuration "

Wireless APs should be configured to have all antennae vertical; on the current 4 antenna APs, the upper pair should be directly up and the lower pair directly down.

Clean Air: Wireless APs automatically change their network channel to channels to prevent interference with other wireless networks. This is generally not relevant as a cause of problems.

Signal strength fluctuation: An additional step that APs take to prevent interference. They automatically reduce their power level if they can see other RUWireless networks. This can result in unintended dead spots for rooms immediately between APs if both APs back down simultaneously.

Cisco Prime offers the ability to view the following helpful information about an AP, inclding:

Currently associated users
Nearby wireless broadcasts
Previously associated users
Power level of AP (10 is lowest, 1 is highest)

Prime offers maps of APs at some locations. This can be useful for evaluating signal strength issues in an area. Note that not all maps are complete or present. Some of the full-time staff have access to additional floor plans however, AP information is not available for those.

When using Prime, consider the difference between the Ethernet MAC and the Base Radio MAC. The Base Radio MAC is generally the address that interests us.

" KB0014266 Network - Wireless Network - Wireless - Damaged or Broken Access Point (AP) "

If a user reports that an Access Point (AP) is damaged or broken inside a residence hall, they will need to provide proof of damage to the AP with pictures emailed to help@oit.rutgers.edu or in an incident. Common issues would include missing antennae from the APs with four antennae.

Once the damage to the AP has been determined, Network Support can schedule an Escalation appointment to have the AP repaired.

For broken or damaged APs in non-residential buildings. Confirm the location of the AP and the damage done as would be done for a residential building. Once this information has been confirmed, move the incident to the EI - Network Access Technologies queue with a request to have the AP repaired.

" KB0014267 Network - Wireless Network - Wireless - Eduroam "

Eduroam is an intra-university network that is available at supported institutions. Faculty, Staff, Students, and Emeritus can access and use Eduroam.

Users log into Eduroam using their own home university credentials. As a result, we cannot install Eduroam for members of other universities visiting us; they will need to speak to their universities for support.

Rutgers Guests and retirees are not eligible for Eduroam.

If Rutgers students, faculty, staff or emeriti want to set up their devices for Eduroam, they will need to run the installer on the Eduroam setup page. Setup can be done from anywhere they have an internet connection; they do not need to be on campus to install, but it's highly recommended that they test the connection on campus before heading to another institution.

Our public-facing documentation is here: RUWireless Eduroam page. Eduroam users log in with netid@rutgers.edu and their NetID password to log in. Other than using netid@rutgers.edu in the installation instead of just the NetID, the rest of the installation is the same. Manual setup instructions are available in the article: RUWireless & Eduroam - Manual Setup.

" KB0014269 Network - Wireless Network - Wireless - General Information "

Allowed Roles

Users without student, faculty, staff, alumni, or guest roles cannot access RUWireless Secure. They can instead use the guest RUWireless network.

Speed limits

RUWireless in the dorms does not have a guaranteed minimum speed. However, due to how the APs allocate bandwidth, in some cases wireless speeds can be significantly better than wired speeds. For our Cisco APs, the full bandwidth of the AP is divided between the users. An AP with 50 Mbps with 2 users would give 25 Mbps to each while the same AP with 100 users would give 0.5 to each. This is why users report slowness most in the evenings because many users are connecting at once. Generally, if an AP is being flooded with users and all nearby APs are functioning normally, the only solution is installing more APs. APs generally have an unthrottled gigabit connection.

Where do APs come from?

RUWireless APs are installed by the NOC. For dorms, the housing department pays for the AP. For academic buildings, the department that controls the building pays. APs for other networks are installed and maintained by that department.

Coverage

RUWireless offers full coverage in all Rutgers. However, not all academic buildings have coverage. For an uncovered department building to get covered, the department must submit a request to the Telecommunications Division and fund the installation of APs.

For this reason, we only perform wireless surveys in dorms. If a user requests a survey in a building other than a dorm, speak with a supervisor. Personal Routers are not permitted in any residence hall.

Supported devices for RUWireless Secure

Other than computers and smartphones, any device that can authenticate on 802.1x is supported on RUWireless Secure. Any device with a browser that can store cookies should support the browser for RUWireless.

RUatHome

Game consoles, smart TVs, streaming devices, smart devices, and wired (ethernet) desktops can be connected to the network (RUatHome). For information, go to the knowledge article detailing how to Connect your smart devices, streaming devices, gaming consoles, and wired desktops.

" KB0014270 Network - Wireless Network - Wireless - Google Homes on RUAtHome "

Although it is not guaranteed that all Google Homes can connect to RUAtHome, here are some steps to attempt a connection:

The user must have the Google Home application on their phone. If they don't, have them install it.
The device must be factory reset to get the Google Home's MAC address.
Then go to the Google Home app, select Devices > Add device > Set up a new device.
Tap on the gear icon, and the MAC address should be at the bottom of the page.

Note: Some devices, like Google Home, may require your phone to be on the same network as your device to complete the setup process or change settings on your device. In this case, you will also have to add your phone to the RUAtHome Registration portal.

For more information, please refer to the following article regarding connecting your smart devices.

" KB0014273 Network - Wireless Network - Wireless - Installation Requests "

The RUWireless service is made available to departments on a contractual basis. If users want RUWireless installed in their department or building, they may log in to the following request tool and submit their request.



" KB0014274 Network - Wireless Network - Wireless - Manual Setup "

In some cases the RUWireless installer is not an option due to various issues or device/OS incompatibility. In these cases manual configuration of the device can be required.

The settings are located at RUWireless Secure Manual Setup.

For each device which needs to be configured manually, the best way to find out where to input what setting is to search online for DEVICE_NAME 802.1x configuration or OPERATING_SYSTEM 802.1x configuration .

Several important notes regarding the secure setup:

In order to download the two listed certificates, the user will need to either have access to internet or have a USB port to get the certificates from the tools USB.
EAP is not the same as EAP-TTLS if both are an option.
TTLS stands for Tunneled TLS.
WPA2 is not the same as WPA2 Enterprise.
While the Identity or Username is where the the user enters their NetID, the Anonymous or Secret Identity field should be left blank.

Below is a list of manual setup instructions for different operating systems.

Note: The following operating systems are not supported or documented:

Mac OS X 10.7.5
Mac OS X 10.8
Mac OS X 10.9
Apple iOS 5
Apple iOS 6
Apple iOS 7
Table of Contents
OSX 10.6.8
RUWireless Secure
Eduroam
Android
RUWireless Secure
Eduroam
Kindle
RUWireless Secure
Windows 10
Windows 7/Vista
Windows XP
Linux with Network-Manager
RUWireless Secure
Eduroam
Installing Network Manager
Linux without Network-Manager
Chromebook
OSX 10.6.8
RUWireless Secure

Please follow the steps listed below to manually configure a Mac running OSX 10.6.8 (Snow Leopard) to connect to RUWireless Secure:

Select Network.
Choose AirPort or WiFi (whichever is present).
Select Advanced....
Select 802.1X.
Click the + in the bottom left to add a profile.
Enter the following information:
Description: RUWireless Secure
Network Port: AirPort (or WiFi)
User Name: netid (lowercase letters only)
Password: netid password
Wireless Network: RUWireless Secure
Authentication: TTLS
Security Type: WPA2-Enterprise (if its an option)
Select Configure next to Authentication and make sure TTLS Inner Authentication is set as PAP and Outer Identity is left blank.
Close out of the advanced options and connect to RUWireless Secure.
Choose Connect next to 802.1X RUWireless Secure if it isn't already connected.
When connecting to the wired connection, you need to click on System Preferences > Network > Ethernet and select Connect next to 802.1X RUWireless Secure.
Eduroam
Select Network.
Choose AirPort or WiFi (whichever is present).
Select Advanced....
Select 802.1X.
Click the + in the bottom left to add a profile.
Enter the following information:
Description: Eduroam
Network Port: AirPort (or WiFi)
User Name: netid@rutgers.edu
Password: netid password
Wireless Network: Eduroam
Authentication: TTLS
Security Type: WPA2-Enterprise (if its an option).
Select Configure next to Authentication and make sure TTLS Inner Authentication is set as PAP and Outer Identity is left blank.
Close out of the advanced options and connect to Eduroam.
Choose Connect next to 802.1X RUWireless Secure if it isn't already connected.
When connecting to the wired connection, you need to click on System Preferences > Network > Ethernet and select Connect next to 802.1X Eduroam.
Android
RUWireless Secure
SSID: RUWireless Secure
Security: WPA2 Enterprise / 802.1x
EAP Method: TTLS
Phase 2 / Inner Authentication: PAP
Trusted Root Certificate: http://crt.comodoca.com/AddTrustExternalCARoot.crt
Identity/Username: netid (lowercase letters only)
Password: netid password
Note: If a user is using android 8.x("Oreo") they may need to explicitly check a "Hidden Network" option under the advanced menu.

Students with some versions of Android may not initially see the I have a NetID/I am a guest page after connecting to the network, or may be unable to load the Play store to download the Secure W2 app after clicking I have a NetID and password.

This should not affect all Android users. However, if this happens attempt the following steps:

Disconnect from the RUWireless network.
If they have and are willing to use cellular data, skip to step 6.
Wait 3-5 minutes and connect to RUWireless again.
If the I have a NetID/I am a guest page does not load, open a browser and go to ruw.rutgers.edu.
Click I want Guest Internet Access, review the agreement and click I Agree at the bottom.
Open a browser page and go to RUWireless.
Click Install RUWireless Secure on the right.
Complete the RUWireless Secure installation process.
Eduroam
SSID: eduroam
Security: WPA2 Enterprise / 802.1x
EAP Method: TTLS
Phase 2 / Inner Authentication: PAP
Trusted Root Certificate: http://crt.comodoca.com/AddTrustExternalCARoot.crt
Identity/Username: netid@rutgers.edu (link sends e-mail)
Password: netid password
Kindle
RUWireless Secure
SSID: RUWireless Secure
Security: 802.1x EAP
EAP Method: TTLS
Phase 2 / Inner Authentication: PAP
Trusted Root Certificate: Do not validate
Identity/Username: netid (lowercase letters only)
Password: netid password
Windows 10
Click on the Hidden Network within the range of RUWireless Secure.
Enter RUWireless Secure in the SSID field.
Enter netid (lowercase letters only) in the username field and netid password in the password field.
Press Connect and you should now be connected to RUWireless Secure.
Linux with NetworkManager

***Note: If setting up a Raspberry Pi, change the keyboard to a US keyboard. Do this by going to Menu > Preferences > Mouse & Keyboard > Keyboard Layout > English (US).

Download the RUWireless Secure certificate from Tools USB.

Invoke nm-connection-editor by right-clicking on the NetworkManager icon, clicking on Edit Connections which brings up the network-connections having various options to connect to the local network or/and the Internet.

RUWireless Secure
SSID: RUWireless Secure
Security: WPA2 Enterprise / 802.1x
EAP Method: TTLS
Phase 2 / Inner Authentication: PAP
CA Certificate: download from https://cloud.securew2.com/public/09325/RUWirelessSecure/certificates/usertrustrsacertificationauthority.cer
Trusted Root Certificate: https://cloud.securew2.com/public/09325/RUWirelessSecure/certificates/addtrustexternalca%20[jdk].cer
Identity/Username: netid (lowercase letters only)
Password: netid password
Eduroam
SSID: eduroam
Security: WPA2 Enterprise / 802.1x
EAP Method: TTLS
Phase 2 / Inner Authentication: PAP
CA Certificate: download from https://cloud.securew2.com/public/09325/RUWireless_Secure_with_eduroam/certificates/usertrustrsacertificationauthority.cer
Trusted Root Certificate: http://crt.comodoca.com/AddTrustExternalCARoot.crt
Identity/Username: netid@rutgers.edu
Password: netid password

The manual settings above work for every distribution of Linux that runs NetworkManager. This includes every version of Ubuntu from 8.04 on, Gentoo with GNOME and gtk, Crunchbang, etc.

To connect to RUWireless Secure, click the NetworkManager icon > Connect to Hidden Network... > RUWireless Secure.


Installing NetworkManager

Some Linux distributions support NetworkManager but do not have it installed by default. These are the steps necessary to make it work correctly, though they may need to be modified to suit the specific distribution.

Install NetworkManager
Use the distributions package manager to find the Network Manager package. In Debian based distributions, it can be installed with the following:
sudo apt-get update; sudo apt-get install network-manager network-manager-gnome
Disable any unnecessary services
This includes dhcpd and ifplugd and wicd. Research what is appropriate. Not all of the services mentioned above may be installed. But usually this usually this can be accomplished with the following:
sudo systemctl disable dhcpcd; sudo systemctl disable ifplugd; sudo systemctl disable wicd;
Set up NetworkManager

Both commands boot up the Network Manager service and configures the device to start NM for every boot up
sudo systemctl enable NetworkManager; sudo systemctl start NetworkManager
Reboot Device
Remove Old NetworkManager Icon
Right click the icon and click remove.
Start NetworkManager:
This command starts the NetworkManager applet.
nm-applet 
Linux without NetworkManager
Using wpa_supplicant (a unix command-line utility for connecting to wifi networks):
Open /etc/wpa_supplicant.conf with a text editor such as Leafpad, Nano, or Vim.

sudo leafpad /etc/wpa_supplicant.conf
Insert the following into the file, replacing the text marked with angle brackets (<>) with the appropriate content:

network={
      ssid="RUWireless Secure"
      scan_ssid=1
      key_mgmt=WPA-EAP
      eap=TTLS
      identity="<netid>"
      password="<NetID password>"
      ca_cert2="<path to downloaded copy of https://cloud.securew2.com/public/09325/RUWirelessSecure/certificates/usertrustrsacertificationauthority.cer>"
      phase2="auth=PAP"
      }

The path may be found by going to file properties and adding /<name of file> onto the end. In this case, the file name will be /RUWireless_Secure.crt
In order to find out the correct interface for the connection, you must run either of the following commands:
ifconfig

or
ip a

Note: the second command checks for an IP address.
The command will usually show you three or more interfaces (wired, loop, and wireless).
You can choose between the wired and wireless adapters according to which interface you wish to use.
For example, if your wireless adapter is named "wlan0", the following would be the command to run in order to make the connection:
sudo wpa_supplicant -Dwext -i wlan0 -c /etc/wpa_supplicant.conf &

NOTE: Be sure to substitute -Dwext with -Dwired if using a wired connection, and "wlan0" with the correct interface (usually "eth0" for wired connection).

You must then run the following, to run DHCP:
sudo dhclient -v -i wlan0
You may replace "wlan0" with the correct interface.
Check for IP using:
ip a

If there a still issues, check the DNS servers by opening /etc/resolv.conf

sudo leafpad /etc/resolv.conf

and insert:

nameserver 128.6.1.1

into the file, and try again.

You can automate the connection by editing /etc/network/interfaces like so:

sudo leafpad /etc/network/interfaces

and insert the following into the file:

auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet dhcp
wpa-conf /etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf


Reboot the device to test.

Substitute the interface "wlan0" for whichever is appropriate.

Chromebook
Configuration Using W2 Chrome Extension

Connect to RUWireless (open) and log in.

Go to ruwireless.rutgers.edu and click the link on the right side of the page that says Install RUWireless Secure.

On the following page, make sure the select your device drop down menu has Chrome OS selected and click the Install button.

The following page should be the Chrome Web Store and the extension JoinNow MultiOS should be displayed. Click the add to chrome button.

Go back to the previous tab where the install button was located and it should now ask for your NetID credentials. Enter them in the space provided and click download. A file will be downloaded and a new tab will open in your browser.

The new tab will have opened chrome://net-internals/#chromeos. Go to this tab and click on Choose File under the Import ONC file header.

When prompted, select the newly downloaded file, SecureW2.onc, and click open.

NOTE: the page may not give any indication that the file was chosen. That is ok. Continue to the following step.

Connect to RUWireless secure in network settings.

Set RUWireless Secure as the preferred network.

If the above method does not work you can use the following steps to get configured manually.

Manual Configuration

Open the computer s settings page by clicking on the bar in the bottom right of the task bar then clicking on Settings.

Under Internet Connection, click Add Connection then choose Add WiFi.

On the next screen click the Advanced button which will expand the settings.

Enter the following settings:

SSID: RUWireless Secure
EAP Method: EAP-TTLS
Phase 2 Authentication: PAP
CA Certificate: default (Does not accept our certificates for some reasons. The Do Not Use option can be used after attempting to use default.)
Identity: netid
Password: netid password
(Make sure remember credentials box is checked.)

" KB0010952 Network - Wireless Network - Wireless - Mobile Setup and Common Issues "

In general, it is pretty simple to install RUWireless Secure on mobile devices. A list of guides with screenshots is linked at the end of the article.

Windows
Connect to RUWireless.
From the pop up, select I Have a NetID and Password.
Select the Join Now option from the wifi.rutgers.edu page.
Run the downloaded SecureW2 program.
Enter netid and password and select Next.
Select Done once the profile has finished configuring.
Common Issues & Notes

If a user enters their netid and password incorrectly, the profile may say joined. However, their device will not connect to RUWireless Secure. If that is the case, take the user to cas.rutgers.edu and have them log in. If they can log in successfully, have them rerun the installer. If they cannot log in, have them reset their password and try again.

MacOS
Connect to RUWireless.
From the pop up, select I Have a NetID and Password.
Select the Join Now option from the wifi.rutgers.edu page.
Run the downloaded SecureW2 program.
Enter netid and password and select Next.
When prompted to open System Preferences and install the profile hit Next.
Select the Install option and follow the steps as the device prompts them.
If asked to access the key chain select Always Allow.
Select Done When the installer has finished configuring the profile.
Common Issues & Notes

If the regular RUWireless secure installer is not working on a user's Mac, select "iPhone/iPad" on the wifi.rutgers.edu page. This will change the installer to the mobile iPhone/iPad RUWireless Secure installer and can sometimes be used as an alternative if the regular Mac OS installer does not work. (Please remove all profiles relating to RUWireless Secure on the user's Mac before proceeding with the installer).

Android
Connect to RUWireless.
Select I have a NetID and password.
Select Join RUWireless Secure.
Click on Install next to the Google Play store option.
Install the SecureW2 app from the Google Play Store.
Select Accept if asked for app permissions.
Return to the browser and select the Join Now Option.
When taken to the SecureW2 app enter netid and password and select Continue.
Select Done When prompted.
Common Issues & Notes
Android devices are blocked from accessing the Google Play Store while onboarding to RUWireless Secure. As a result, they cannot download the JoinNow MultiOS app unless they are on mobile data or guest access. The Android Alternate Setup guide covers using guest access/mobile data to download the JoinNow app. This setup also covers manually going through the app instead of using the installer's JoinNow button in the event of URL issues.
If the Android device cannot use the app or has issues with mobile data, the Android Manual Setup guide explains how to do a fully manual configuration.
If there is an error in the setup process about a credential storage password, you may need to reset this password. In some cases, all that you need to do to bypass this is disable your screen lock. In others, it can be more complicated. Search the specific device for details.
Older Samsung phones (including J-series) have reported errors where "Game Optimizing Service has stopped working". The fix was to go Settings > Advanced Settings > Games/Game Launcher, and toggle Game Launcher off.
iOS
Connect to RUWireless.
Select I have a NetID and password.
Select Join RUWireless Secure.
When the option to open in safari appears, choose Open.
Type in your NetID and password and click Join Now.
Click Allow.
Go to settings and select Profile Downloaded.
Choose Install.
Enter iPhone Passcode if applicable.
When the warning pops up, choose Install, and then choose Install again.
Select Done.
Common Issues & Notes
If you are repeatedly prompted for a password after installation and cannot connect, you must forget and reinstall the network.
Some older iPhones have weak antennae that can cause difficulty in detecting low-power wireless signals.

Some versions of Windows Phone & Blackberry support 802.1x, however they will need to be configured manually. These are very rare cases; search online for detailed instructions.

Step by Step Instructions

IOS

Android

Windows

Mac OS

" KB0010953 Network - Wireless Network - Wireless - PaperCut Printing "

Printing information and instructions are available at the printing home page.

Guests also receive the $30 printing allocation but would need to request an ID card to do so.

" KB0010955 Network - Wireless Network - Wireless - Radiation questions "

Radiation concerns related to wireless signals

Concerns about the potential dangers of wireless signals such as those from cell phones and wireless routers occasionally arise.

In short, wireless routers emit weaker signals than cell phones and, therefore, present even less potential risk. Additionally, cell phones have not been shown to present health risks based on current scientific research.

For more information, refer to the FCC s page on wireless devices and health concerns.

" KB0014340 Network - Wireless Network - Wireless - RBHS Wireless "

RUHealthSciences exists across the RBHS campuses (Newark, Piscataway, New Brunswick, Scotch Plains, and Stratford). This network is dedicated to faculty, staff, students, and Guest account holders only. All computers and devices that are using these networks must be configured.

"RUHealthSciences" for any RBHS faculty, staff, and students (broadcast in all RBHS and UH locations)
RUWireless and RUWireless Secure (broadcast in all RBHS locations)

If you need assistance connecting to the networks, contact the Fac/Staff Help Desk.

" KB0010956 Network - Wireless Network - Wireless - Redirect to Login Page "

Occasionally, users connected to RUWireless will not be redirected to the correct login page and will get a blank page or an error message.

HTTP vs HTTPS

To access the login page, you can try accessing any web pages that use HTTP instead of HTTPS.

To understand why this solution works, we must examine how devices get to the RUWireless login page normally:

The computer attempts to perform a Domain Name System (DNS) lookup for a URL (Google.com might be translated to the 216.58.219.238 IP address, for example).
The browser requests to access the webpage at IP address 216.58.219.238.
RUWireless will attempt to redirect the browser s request to the RUWireless and Wireless Secure login page instead.
At this point, one of two things can happen:

If the target website uses HTTP, it will be redirected to the login page without issue.
If the target website uses HTTPS, the redirect to the login page will be considered insecure and be blocked by the browser.
Some HTTP web pages that can be used are:
Rutgers.edu
NJ.gov
Common HTTPS sites that can cause problems are:
Google.com
Reddit.com
Facebook.com

The issue can occur on many popular websites. Therefore, if someone cannot get to the login page, have them try one of the HTTP sites instead.

DNS Issues

If the user is not getting redirected to the login page, check if they can access wifi.rutgers.edu.

If they have a non-rutgers DNS, they may not be able to get through to these pages. Therefore, ensure their DNS is set to automatic, and that they get 128.6.1.1 while automatic. Once this is set, they can access these two pages. Users cannot download the RUWireless Secure installer if they have a custom DNS server set.

If the user s DNS is correct, they can download the Secure installer either from the wifi.rutgers.edu link or directly from this RUWireless Secure page.

Tools USB

If the user still cannot get RUWireless to download the installer, you can assist walk-ins or lab patrons with installing Secure via the tools USB. The installer should be there by default.

Other Notes
The student worker role does not grant access to Secure.
Anyone having trouble connecting can log onto the RUWireless guest network first and use it to access the secure download.

" KB0014247 Network - Wireless Network - Wireless - Removing SecureW2 Secure Profile "

A majority of Secure issues can be resolved by removing and reinstalling a freshly downloaded Secure installer. To remove the SecureW2/Secure profiles, please see the following:

iOS
Open the Settings app, then go to General.
Scroll down to Profile & Device Management.
Select the RUWireless Secure profile and tap Delete Profile.
If prompted, enter the device passcode.
Tap Delete to confirm.
Mac OSX up to 10.6
Open System Preferences and select Network.
Choose Airport or Ethernet and click the Advanced button.
Go to the 802.1X tab.
Select RUWireless Secure and click the button to remove the profile.
MacOS 10.7 - 12.7
Open System Preferences and select Profiles.
Choose the RUWireless Secure profile.
Click the button to remove the profile.
MacOS 13+
Open System Settings and select Privacy and Security.
Scroll down to Profile.
Select the RUWireless Secure profile and tap Delete.
If prompted, enter the device passcode.
Tap Delete to confirm.
Windows
Open Control Panel or use the Search function to locate Uninstall Programs.
Scroll through the list to find the SecureW2 program.
Select SecureW2 and click Uninstall.
Android
Using Settings:
Open the phone s Settings and navigate to Apps.
Locate the JoinNow MultiOS app (Secure W2 app).
Select the app and tap Uninstall.
Using the App Drawer:
Open the App Drawer and find the JoinNow MultiOS app.
Press and hold the app icon, then drag it to the Delete/Uninstall section on the screen.
For Devices with Manual Configuration

If the JoinNow MultiOS app is not installed, the device may have been manually configured. Follow these steps:

Open the phone s Wireless Settings.
Select the RUWireless Secure network.
Choose the option to Forget Network.

Note: Not all Android phones will have the JoinNow MultiOS (Secure W2) app installed. Some devices may have been manually configured instead. In such cases, simply forget the network through the wireless settings as outlined above.

" KB0010959 Network - Wireless Network - Wireless - RUIOT "

RUIOT (Rutgers Internet of Things) is a WPA2-PSK wireless network broadcast across the University to supplement the existing wireless bypass services offered on RUWireless.

This network is only available to departments and IT professionals, it is not offered for your typical end user.

Connection to this network (with password: resnetiot); use the IP Space 172.30.X.X and does not have the same speed and firewall restrictions as RUWireless so devices on this network should offer greater usability for devices. These devices can connect to the network without being stopped by the captive portal. There is a speed cap in place of 10Mbps per device and firewall restrictions on this network.

The RUIOT network should only be used for departmental non-802.1x devices.

If a user reports issues with specific applications or devices, bring this to the attention of a Supervisor for tracking and escalation.

Departmental IT must follow the procedure to connect to RUIOT, if it is a streaming device; otherwise, they should submit a request via the EI - MAC Authentication Bypass (MAB) form (only visible to IT staff).

Important Notes:

Any reports of missing RUIOT SSID should be escalated to the wireless team assignment group: EI - Network Access Technologies.
Problems of devices not connecting should be escalated to the NAC team assignment group: EI - Network Access Technologies (NAC).

" KB0010951 Network - Wireless Network - Wireless - RUWireless Secure Service Account "

Purpose of an RUWireless Secure Service Account

RUWireless Secure (RUWS) Service Accounts are used to install RUWireless Secure on a device which is not assigned to a single user. For RUWS Service Accounts, there are no MAC address limits on Service accounts since they are not MAC-restricted.

Examples of typical use cases might include departments with sign-in kiosks, departmental tablets, or departmental iPads.

Note: The form below is only visible to IT Staff.

Requesting an RUWS Service Account

To request an RUWireless Secure Service Account, navigate to the EI - RUWireless Secure Service Account form.

If the link above does not bring you directly to the form:

Navigate to https://ithelp.rutgers.edu/
Select Request Service > Desktop and Mobile Computing > EI - RUWireless Secure Service Account.

The request form will ask for the following information:

Requested for

By default, it will populate your name.
This would be the contact who is responsible for the account. In those cases where this request is being submitted for someone else, please indicate it in the form.
i.e. For a guest or non-IT personnel requesting it for their department, they'd need their IT representative to submit it on their behalf.
You can search for the user via NetID or name.
Contact email
By default, it will populate the email of the contact listed in the Requested for field.
Contact phone number
By default, it may populate the phone number of the contact listed in the Requested for field.
Department Name
By default, it may populate the department of the contact listed in the Requested for field.
Username
Must be at least 9 characters.
Description
Type of device(s) and business purpose.
Department contact address
Contact address for the IT department responsible for the Service Account.
This e-mail address will be used for Service Account lifecycle communications going forward so this should not be a single point of contact.
Additional Comments

Note: There is an ability to attach files to the request but is not required. The button is located below Additional Comments.



For issues where all basic and intermediate troubleshooting has been exhausted regarding RUWS Service Accounts, Shaun Manaois can assist further.

" KB0010929 Network - Wireless Network - Wireless - RUWireless Secure Setup on Chrome OS "

Manual Configuration



Open the computer s settings page by clicking on the bar in the bottom right of the task bar then clicking on settings

Under Internet Connection, click Add Connection then choose Add WiFi

On the next screen click the Advanced button which will expand the settings

Enter the following settings:



SSID: RUWireless Secure

EAP Method: EAP-TTLS

Phase 2 Authentication: PAP

CA Certificate: default (Does not accept our certificates for some reasons. The "Do Not Use" option can be used after attempting to use "default")

Identity: netid

Password: netid password

(Make sure "remember credentials" box is checked. )



Configuration Using W2 Chrome Extension

THIS METHOD NO LONGER WORKS; PLEASE USE THE MANUAL METHOD ABOVE

(as of 8/1/2018 the Chrome W2 extension isn't functioning)

Connect to RUWireless (open) and log in

Go to https://ruwireless.rutgers.edu/ and click the link on the left side of the page that says Install RUWireless Secure

On the following page, make sure the select your device drop down menu has Chrome OS selected and click the Install button

The following page should be the Chrome Web Store and the extension JoinNow MultiOS should be displayed. Click the add to chrome button.

Go back to the previous tab where the install button was located and it should now ask for your NetID credentials. Enter them in the space provided and click download . A file will be downloaded and a new tab will open in your browser.

The new tab will have opened chrome://net-internals/#chromeos . Go to this tab and click on Choose File under the Import ONC file header.

When prompted, select the newly downloaded file, SecureW2.onc , and click open

NOTE: the page may not give any indication that the file was chosen. That is ok. Continue to the following step.

Connect to RUWireless secure in network settings.

Set RUWireless Secure as the preferred network.



" KB0014276 Network - Wireless Network - Wireless - RUWireless Survey Guidelines "

Below is a general guideline of what to do when a Level 2 is out on a RUWireless Survey.

Table of Contents
Before heading out to the appointment
Upon arrival at the appointment
The wireless survey process
How to locate driver information
MacOS
Windows
Sample write-up for ServiceNow work notes
Before heading out to the appointment
Access point (AP) information: Before going out to conduct a survey, speak with a supervisor to get information about the closest access points and put that information into the ticket. This information will include the name, location, and the MAC address of the AP. You will be able to reference this information in MIST to see if the AP is running properly when you are on site.
Understanding the situation: Read over the ServiceNow ticket to fully grasp the issue that the user is facing. Remember that the main reason for these surveys is to examine whether the issue lies with the user's device(s) or with the APs of the location. Sometimes the issue can be device-specific. For example, the user s phone may be getting a perfect wireless signal, but the user s laptop is not. After reading the ticket, you should be aware of the user's specific issue (drops in connection, slow speeds, or both) and the user's devices.
The wireless network interface card (NIC): While on site, you will be conducting the survey with both the user s laptop (if it is a laptop issue) and the ResNet laptop. Be sure to use the wireless NIC on the ResNet laptop.
You can disable the internal wireless card by going to Network and Sharing Center > Change Adapter Settings > Disable the current Wi-Fi adapter.
When you plug the wireless NIC into the laptop, it will be listed as Wi-Fi 2.
Things to bring: For a wireless survey, the only required equipment is the ResNet laptop, wireless NIC, and the liability waiver form. Other equipment can be taken if deemed necessary, particularly the fluke.
Upon arrival at the appointment
Get a detailed account of the user s issue by asking the following questions:
What is the user s issue?
Does it occur on both the RUWireless Secure and the guest network?
Does the issue resolve after a short period?
How long does the issue last?
Times that the user experiences issues
Is the network stable at other times?
Does this happen in certain locations or rooms?
Is this local to their apartment or across campus?
Note: If the user asks about having a wireless router, please refer to the router policy for further guidance.
Get information about the user s devices
Include model info as well as software info for all devices the user has, even if they work. Please collect info on the wireless card and the installed driver information.
Please collect the information for all devices the user has, and whether they work. If connection issues are on certain devices, it is probably not an issue with the wireless network.
Initial troubleshooting questions:
Does the user have low signal strength?
Is the signal strength the same with the USB wireless NIC?

(Check driver version for USB NIC)
Are the drivers up to date for the device's wireless card?
Does the ResNet laptop have a similar issue?
Does it work closer to the AP?
Does the device have issues connecting to the network?
If the user is connecting via the Open network, install RUWireless Secure.
If the user is connecting via RUWireless Secure, try reinstalling.
If this does not work, check the driver version and try the USB NIC.
Does the device drop the connection?
Is there low signal strength when the device drops?
Is it able to reconnect? How long does it take?
Confirm the driver version is up to date, and try with a USB NIC.
Slow speeds?
Low signal strength?
Does it work in other locations?
Does it work closer to the AP?
Connected, but nothing will load
Does the user have a valid IP (172.31.x.x)?
Check to make sure that the DNS settings are set to auto.
Does the connection show as limited?
Run "ipconfig /release".
Run "ipconfig /renew".
Test the connection.
If issues continue, please run ipconfig /all and copy the data.
Is the device a support device?
Please refer to the How to connect your smart devices, streaming devices, gaming consoles, and wired desktops knowledge article for a list of supported devices.
For unsupported devices, we will not permit a wireless router for these devices alone. You can tell the user that the service provider is working on a long-term fix for these devices, but we do not have an ETA for the release of this fix. If the user has any further issues, they may contact the Help Desk.
Is the device FCC compliant?
The wireless survey process
Checking the AP: The first thing to do when you get to the user s residence is to check the closest access point to see if it is on, running, or damaged. If the AP is damaged, note how it is damaged and take a picture of it. Damaged APs can be reported via the protocol outlined in RUWireless - Broken & Damaged Access Point. For wall-mounted APs, antennae should be completely vertical, with the top two facing the ceiling and the bottom two facing down. Ensure that all antennae are securely screwed in.

The following list was created for the Cisco Aironet 2700 APs (Some RUWireless APs are of this model), but is still a good quick reference for other APs as well.

LED Status Indications by Message Type:

Boot Loader Status Sequence
Blinking green:
DRAM memory test in progress.
DRAM memory test OK.
Board initialization in progress.
Initializing the FLASH file system.
FLASH memory test OK.
Initializing Ethernet.
Ethernet OK.
Starting Cisco IOS.
Initialization successful.
Association Status
Green: No wireless client associated.
Blue: At least one wireless client is associated.
Operating Status
Blinking blue: Software upgrade in progress.
Cycling green, red, off: Discovery/join process in progress.
Rapidly cycling blue, green, red: Access point location command invoked.
Blinking red: Ethernet link not operational.
Boot Loader Warnings
Blinking blue: Configuration recovery in progress (MODE button pushed for 2 3 seconds).
Red: Ethernet failure or image recovery (MODE button pushed for 20 30 seconds).
Blinking green: Image recovery in progress (MODE button released).
Boot Loader Errors
Red: DRAM memory test failure.
Blinking red and blue: FLASH file system failure.
Blinking red and off:
Environment variable failure.
Bad MAC address.
Ethernet failure during image recovery.
Boot environment failure.
No Cisco image file.
Boot failure.
Cisco IOS Errors
Red: Software failure; try disconnecting and reconnecting the unit's power.
Cycling blue, green, red, and off: General warning; insufficient inline power.


Network cards: Before surveying the area, it is imperative to check the user s make/model of the network adapter and its corresponding drivers. Drivers are out of date in some cases. Directions on where the driver information is listed in the Device Information section of the survey printout.

Windows: In Device Manager, right-click the card and select Properties, then go to the Drivers tab.
MacOS: Go to Apple menu > About This Mac > More Info... > System Report... > WiFi and look for Card Type.
Updating drivers: To manually update the drivers for Windows, type the network card name into Google.
For example, type Intel(R) Dual Band Wireless-AC 3160 driver and this will direct you to the Intel website to download a newer version of the driver.
Sometimes drivers are downloaded as an .exe file, which will automatically update the driver when the file is run, but sometimes websites provide the driver in a folder of files. In that case, you would need to manually install the driver.
Note: For MacOS, the only way to update drivers is to update the OS. You may do so with the user s permission. If you cannot get a solid internet connection with either the user s laptop or by using the Wireless NIC with the user s laptop, please update the OS using a Wired NIC.
Surveying the area:
You will be surveying the user s entire residence using the following tools:
MIST
Windows Snipping Tool
(Command+Shift+4 on Mac OS)
Google Speed Test
inSSider
Before starting, create a folder on both laptops desktops labeled as [Ticket #] user and [Ticket #] Wireless NIC. You will be taking a snapshot of inSSider and the Speed Test on both devices. Using MIST is not necessary on the user s device. There should be a minimum of 3 screenshots per location. It should take roughly 5 minutes to obtain the information necessary in each location. Name each screenshot with the ticket number, the location where the survey was done, and which laptop was used in the filename [i.e., "INC0818290 Living Room user (INC0818290 Living Room Wireless Nic).png"]. At the end of taking screenshots, be sure to copy the folder on the user s laptop onto the Tools USB so that you have the screenshots to upload.
In the Silvers Apartments, for instance, there are three main living quarters: the living room and two bedrooms. With three rooms to survey, there should be a total of at least 9 screenshots with signal strength information. The reason for so many screenshots is that the information is readily accessible for the people who review the surveys.
The ServiceNow write-up and RUWireless survey webform: A thorough ServiceNow comment at the end of a survey is essential to completing a solid RUWireless Survey. The consultant going out to the site knows what happens at the user s residence more than any other consultant, so please be sure to be as specific as possible in what is done on site. A sample write-up is provided in the next section.

Please also fill out the RUW Survey Webform, which can be found in the staff portal.
In addition, please upload the survey screenshots to the incident in ServiceNow.
Nuances & troubleshooting: There are many unusual issues that require special instructions.
The following are general troubleshooting tips throughout the survey:

If the issue seems specific to the user device, check if the user s device is connecting on the 2.4 GHz or the 5 GHz band. While we can ask the NOC to increase the power of a specific band, it is sometimes not viable to increase the power of the 2.4 GHz band due to interference with other APs. In such cases, we may recommend that the user obtain a NIC that supports the 5 GHz band instead.
If the issue seems to disappear when the ResNet NIC is connected to their device, it is possible that the user s network card is old, underpowered, damaged, or misconfigured. Some network cards do not have their default settings optimized for 802.11n, which can be corrected by looking up the ideal settings online. However, the other cases can only be fixed by a new network card, either internal or as a USB.
It can be the case that the theoretical nearest AP is powered off, mislabeled, or otherwise deficient. In cases where there appears to be no signal at all, or the AP information from MIST does not appear at all, it is helpful to call the Help Desk and see if they can identify which AP is the true nearest that is being connected to.
In some cases, network issues are caused by interfering nearby wireless networks. These can sometimes be identified by looking for bypassed devices with similar MAC addresses. Another possible way to identify these networks is to see what devices are connected to nearby ResNet switches.
Speed Test results are often not the focus of our surveys, so we do not require quite as many pictures of these. Signal strength is much more important. Getting a picture of the inSSider at many locations inside and just outside the dorm helps us get a better understanding of the issue.
In very specific cases, it may be necessary to use Wireshark to inspect wireless packets.
Another very rare tool is the Locust, a network hunter that helps track down the exact source of an SSID. There are phone apps that replicate this functionality.
How to locate driver information
MacOS

MacOS cannot update drivers without updating/upgrading the operating system, but it is still important to include this information in the survey. Here is a screenshot of MacOS to illustrate where to look for driver information. From the desktop, click the Apple button on the top right of the screen. Then go to About this Mac > System Report > Network > Wi-Fi.





Windows

While Windows has built-in driver updating, it is almost always better to retrieve the drivers directly from the manufacturer if possible. To find the driver information for Windows devices, open the Device Manager by clicking Start and selecting Device Manager from the Control Panel. Alternatively, you may use the shortcut for Run (Windows+R), then type devmgmt.msc and hit Enter.





If you searched the network card on Google and found an updated driver for the specific network card, go to Browse my computer for driver software > Let me pick from a list of device drivers on my computer > Have disk... > Browse to locate the driver folder. Then, you will have to find the driver folder wherever you downloaded it. Sometimes the drivers download as a .zip file, so you may need to extract the folder first.

As long as the user has internet access, you can use the Tools USB to update the user s drivers. Make sure to check Create a restore point before updating any drivers in case of failure.

Sample write-up for ServiceNow work notes

Upon arriving at the user s apartment, I checked the closest AP. It is located in the next room, which is a lounge, but it is roughly 20ft away from the nearest room in the apartment.

First, I checked the user s network card drivers. I found a newer version on the web, so I went ahead and updated it.

As I was updating the user s drivers, I went to the closest AP and took a screenshot of inSSIDer.

In the living room, both the Wireless NIC and the user s laptop were able to pull an average connection. The user could stream on her laptop, and there was no delay in getting to websites. The issue is when moving to either of the two bedrooms.

In the main bedroom, the wireless NIC could not reach any internal or external sites. The user s laptop could access websites, but it took roughly 10-15 seconds for websites to load. I tried streaming a video on YouTube, but the video would merely buffer.

In the guest bedroom, it took the wireless NIC roughly one minute in order to reach any external website. It took roughly 20 seconds in order for the user s laptop to reach any external websites.

" KB0014414 OneSource Onesource - Employee Verification "

For information and guidelines regarding employee verification, please refer to the Employee Verification page on the UHR website.



" KB0014280 OneSource OneSource - HR and Payroll "

OneSource is the Rutgers University Human Resources (HR) s Employee and Faculty Service Center. They are a single point of contact for employees (including student employees), faculty, managers, and retirees to have their HR & Payroll questions answered and issues resolved.

Leave Administration and Insurances all medical and non-medical leave requests and documentation are handled exclusively by OneSource.
CM-Personal Data Changes updates to personal information such as name, date of birth, address, social security number, etc.
Benefits Administration manage enrollments, deductions, tuition reimbursement/remission, and verification requests (e.g., State, Medicare, etc.)
Kite and Key Technology Store Deductions
Former-Employee Services provide needed information and forms/documents to former employees
Pending Job Change Submissions monitor pending job changes to ensure pay accuracy.

A case number is assigned to each incoming inquiry/issue, and it is tracked until resolved so the customer can check the case's progress. The system also facilitates service by providing OneSource representatives with a customer s role, union, benefits, and other relevant factors at the point of contact.

Note: The OneSource self-service portal is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The center does not offer walk-in service; however, the existing walk-in areas for UHR and Payroll will remain open to serve faculty and staff on matters requiring in-person support.

You can contact OneSource via the service center portal, by email, or by phone: 732-745-SERV (7378).

Hours of Operation: 8 AM - 5 PM, Monday - Friday

__________________________

What does OneSource offer you?
A single point of contact.
When you call, knowledgeable professionals will assist you with accurate, up-to-date answers to your questions. You have the added convenience of calling one phone number, (732) 745-SERV (7378), for end-to-end service resolution.
On-demand access 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Policies, procedures, and forms are available on the OneSource self-service portal. You can access them whenever you need to find human resources and payroll information.
Consistent and accurate information.
You can browse an extensive collection of articles on the self-service portal. Articles include the latest information on topics such as leave administration, disability insurance, benefits, and payroll matters.
A clear view of your inquiry status.
When you call, a OneSource s ff member will open a ticket to start the process. You will receive email notifications prompting you to take action when additional documentation (e.g., a doctor s note) is required to complete your request.
The focus is on you the customer!
We will check in with you periodically to see how we re doing and to ensure we're providing best-in-class service.
How do you contact OneSource?
Phone
Call (732) 745-SERV (7378) to speak with a customer service representative Monday through Friday from 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM.
OneSource Self-Service Portal
Access the OneSource self-service portal to initiate a request or read articles on human resources and payroll topics.
Check out the OneSource Portal navigation video under the Resources title.
OneSource Website
Browse the OneSource website for updates on the service center, videos, and leadership messages.

" KB0014281 OR OR - Emeritus and Retiree roles "

These roles were created to provide more granularity on the roles that Rutgers-affiliated people have and to better define the services available for these groups of people. Information about these roles in relation to their email accounts can be found in the Rutgers Connect Emeritus and Retirees knowledge article.

If any new retirees who are not in the HR system request services, they will need to contact their retiree relations representative based on the information on the Rutgers Retiree Information page. Their retiree relations contact should assist them by entering their information directly into HR's systems.

For more information on benefits, visit UHR's page for Retiree Benefits.

If a user does not already have an EMERITUS or RETIREE role but they would like to be granted one, then they should contact the HR of their department in order to receive the role. Information about the various HR departments can be found in the Find Your HR office website.

" KB0014283 OR OR - Information Changes "

Individuals can modify some of their own Student and University Employee information in the Online Directory. To do this they should:

Go to the Personal Info page and log in with their NetID and password.
Use the appropriate tab to modify the information.
Click the Save/Verify button to save any changes.

Different types of people will have different types of access.

Faculty/Staff

There are various ways for Faculty/Staff to change their name depending on the purpose.

If the user wants to change their directory listing on Rutgers People Search they can log into the Personal Info page. This will allow them to create a preferred name in the online directory, but their official name will still also be listed. This official name comes from HR.

If the user wants to update their name, date of birth, and job title with University Human Resources, it is best to suggest that they call the OneSource Rutgers Faculty and Staff Service Center at (732)-745-SERV (7378) or visit the HR Service Portal.

If they want to change their name on beneficiary forms, pension/retirement plans, or health benefit plans, follow these steps:

Log in to to MyRutgers.
On the Dashboard, users should see an icon for "Name Change" under their profile picture.
There are options for changing one's Chosen name or Legal name, and both will direct users to separate pages on the UHR website.
Selecting Faculty/Staff - Change your legal name will direct users to the UHR page with instructions to submit a form to change their names on documents like pension plans, health benefit plans, and beneficiary forms.
Students

Students can update their information fully using the Personal Info page. There are several tabs at the top of the page listing info to be updated.

Users with dual roles

Users with both Student and Faculty or Staff roles will be prompted when going to personalinfo.rutgers.edu to choose which role they want to edit.

People without a NetID

These users would have to first ensure they have an active role. Once they have an active role, they should be able to activate their NetID. Part of the process offers the users the option to create or update their e-mail address in their Directory entries. After their accounts are active, they should be able to use the normal procedure.

New Students

Students with only an Admit Coming role cannot use the online form until they gain a current Student role.

New Employees

People who have submitted their New Hire form to create their NetIDs will not be able to use the online form until Payroll grants them their Faculty or Staff roles.

Guests

Help Desk and Labs FT can update guest information via OR.

RBHS guests should contact their patron to make desired changes. To determine an RBHS guest's patron, locate the guest in OR, in the Source: or-webapp area, click on audit > select Audit Roles > View Audit. Look at the first line of the results and the User listed in red is the NetID of the person that entered this guest's information. For RBHS people ONLY this person is their patron. This can then be used to give the name of the patron to the guest. If the guest needs contact information for their patron, give out ONLY the information that is in the public directory for that person.

If RBHS guests do not know their patron it is ok for them to reach out to their sponsor to have the change made. If it is deemed easier or if there are time constraints, we can contact the patron on behalf of the guest to request the change.

Type 6 employees

Type 6 employees do not have access to this tool. To update their information, the HD Consultant should direct the user to OneSource.

Alumni and former University employees

Alumni and former employees may still have active accounts but would not be able to make directory changes as they would not have current Student, Faculty, Staff, or Guest roles. As such, their entries would not turn up in ROD searches.

" KB0014284 OR OR - OpenRegistry "

OpenRegistry (OR) is a central directory listing faculty, staff, and students at Rutgers University. It lists personal identifying information for users, provided alternate contact information, along with roles (for example, Staff, Guest, Student, Alumni, etc.). Not all information in the OR is made public. Therefore, information in OR should not be given out, but users may view some of the information contained within using the Rutgers Online Directory (ROD), available through search.rutgers.edu. This information is limited to name, office number, office location, department, and official Rutgers email address. However, not all information will be available for all users. This tool is utilized to copy roles & dates and paste them into work notes for an incident.

Layout of OR
Under Manage People on the left-hand side, select View Person.
Under Find Person, there is a selection of Identifier Types, the Identifier field, and the Name field.
Identifier Types in the dropdown menu include NETID, SSN, RUID, RCPID, IID, EXTERNALID, EMPLID, RCN, ANUMBER, PIDM.
You can provide either an identifier or one or more search criteria such as name, but not both.

Ex. Putting the Identifier Type = NetID, Identifier = "ond3", and Name = "Olivia" will display an error.
You can select Show Advanced Search Options to search with role & department name.

Search Results
Search results will show Name, NetID, IID, RCPID, RUID, EMPLID, ANUMBER (if applicable), Birth Date, and Roles respectively.
Click on the hyperlinked name for personal details.

ServiceNow
Copy PHI flag (Y or N), roles and dates and paste them into ServiceNow Work Notes in your incident.
DO NOT COPY:

Social Security Number (SSN)
Notes on Services, Roles, and Requests
Services that go inactive with an inactive role: ScarletMail, Connect, Employee Self Service.
Guest Role: affiliated with the university but not paid by the university or not enrolled as a student.
Sponsor Request FAQ
The retiree role is NOT a guest role.
If something is incorrect on OR, review the Identity Mismatch Article.



" KB0014285 OR OR - Personal Info site FAQs "

Below is a list of answers to Frequently Asked Questions on the Rutgers Personal Contact Information site. For the most up-to-date answers to these FAQs, see the original Personal Info FAQs page.

Where do I change my home address and/or campus/business address?
Rutgers Faculty, Staff, or Student Worker: HR Employee Self-service for home address, home phone number, and/or business phone number.
To update your business address, contact your department's payroll/HR staff.
Rutgers Student: Use the Address Update tab on the Rutgers Personal Contact Information site.

Note: If you are a Rutgers Student and a Rutgers Student Worker, you must update this data in both applications
RBHS Student: To update home address and telephone, click here. To update the business address and telephone, click here.
Where do I change my emergency contact information?
Rutgers Faculty, Staff, or Student Worker: HR Employee Self-service
Rutgers Student: Use the Emergency Contacts tab on the Rutgers Personal Contact Information site.
RBHS Student: Banner Self-service
Where do I add a preferred name for myself?
Directory Listing tab on the Rutgers Personal Contact Information site.
How can I correct my name, date of birth, and/or job title?
View the Information changes KA.

" KB0014329 OR OR - PHI - Restrictions "

There is an LDAP flag indicating whether a user has access to Protected Health Information (PHI). Under HIPAA regulations, there are very strict guidelines on how PHI can be stored or sent via email. As such, users with access to PHI have encrypted email accounts and are subject to restrictions on which email accounts they are eligible to activate and on the email configurations they can set.

You can confirm if an individual has a PHI flag through the NetID Management lookup tool or Open Registry, but all students, staff, faculty, and guests associated with RBHS should be listed with a PHI flag.

Users with PHI flags are subject to the following restrictions:

Users are ONLY allowed to set a delivery address that is a Connect email account (which is all encrypted)
Users are ONLY allowed to use their alias or a Connect email account as an official address
Users are not permitted to forward their Connect email to another account

If a user states they are no longer affiliated with RBHS or do not have access to PHI, we may be able to override the PHI flag and make specific changes on their behalf. If a user claims they do not have access to PHI and need to make a change that is restricted for PHI=Y users, confirm their current affiliation with RBHS/Rutgers and the exact change they are trying to make, and speak with full-time staff.

" KB0014286 OR OR - Rutgers Online Directory FAQs "

Some Frequently Asked Questions about Rutgers Online Directory entries (from the people who maintain it):

Can HD staff give out NetIDs?
Generally, no. For specific guidance, see Policies and Procedures - Giving out NetIDs
Why can't I find myself (or my friend) on the Rutgers Online Directory?
Current Students, Faculty/Staff, and Guests are displayed on the public Directory.
Students: Students can hide all or part of their information displayed in the Rutgers Online Directory by accessing the Personal Info page.
Faculty/Staff: It may take a few weeks for new hires to appear in the system until they are entered into the payroll system.
Guest: All information is displayed immediately when entered by an Administrator.
How can I hide or update my personal information on the Directory?
Students can use the Personal Info site to:
Hide or update their Home Address, Phone Number, Email, or URL.
Hide Academic Major, College or Year of Graduation.
Hide their Entire Records.
Note: Students can only hide their information if they have an active student role, which requires registration.
Faculty/Staff can use the Personal Info site to:
Update their email, home address, and Phone numbers.
Local Rutgers Address/Phone number cannot be hidden, and can be changed through a user's departmental HR.
I am unable to create an accounting web application.
The information used to verify what you enter in the web application comes from the Open Registry (OR). You must have an active role in the OR and match on name, SSN, and date of birth. The Help Desk can view data in the OR using our OR view and verify it with a user.
There are 2 entries for me in the Directory. How can this be corrected?
This usually happens because the source systems have had the name and/or date of birth entered differently. The Help Desk can view data in the OR using our view to OR and verify it with a user to confirm that both records are for the same person. If they are, they should submit a ticket with as much detail as is available.
My name is incorrect. How can I have this corrected?
Corrections need to be done at the data source office. Have the student, faculty member, or staff member contact their local One Stop office.
Faculty and Staff:
Have the user reach out to their department's HR for further assistance with updating the info.
Contact OneSource at 732-745-7378 or via the HR self-service portal for further assistance.
How can I correct my job title or university office information?
Faculty and Staff - Users should contact their departmental HR or OneSource at 732-745-7378 or via the HR self-service portal for further assistance.
How do I contact my Campus Registrar's office?

New Brunswick One Stop - 848-445-4636
Newark One Stop - myRUN Supportal
Camden Registrar, Phone: 856-225-6053
I am receiving this message when using the Rutgers Online Directory: "You are no longer able to access the Rutgers Online Directory."
Queries to ROD are limited by IP address due to screen scraping used for spamming. Send a query to the Help Desk for your campus requesting the ACS-PDB queue with the IP address so ESS can unblock this address.

" KB0018780 Policies and Procedures Labs - Pitch Room TV Instructions "

Pitch Room TV

Patrons can screen share from their devices to the Pitch Room TV using Mersive Solstice or Apple AirPlay. The TV can be powered on using the remote, which should always remain within the Pitch Room.

If the TV is reset, the source will need to be changed to display the Mersive Solstice page. On the remote, select the "Source" button and then navigate to HDMI1 to return the TV to the Mersive Solstice page.



" KB0018779 Policies and Procedures Labs - TV Screen Share Guide "

Lab TVs

There are TVs available for patrons to use within the computer labs. Patrons can connect their devices and share their screen with the TV. They may connect using Apple AirPlay or the Mersive Solstice application.

AirPlay

To assist users with connecting to the TV with Apple AirPlay, utilize the following steps:

First, ensure the device is connected to RUWireless Secure. Then, select the AirPlay button on the device and choose the name of your TV from the list of options.





Enter the code displayed on the TV screen on the device when prompted.





Mersive Solstice

Mersive Solstice is an application that can be downloaded onto the user's device, allowing them to screen share with the TV. To assist users with connecting to the TV using Mersive Solstice, utilize the following steps:

First, ensure the device is connected to RUWireless Secure. Then, navigate to https:// [The IP address listed on the TV screen] and download the Mersive Solstice application on your device or search for the app in your device's application store



 



Open the Mersive Solstice app, and enter the IP address in the search bar at the top of your screen.





Finally, enter the code that is displayed on the TV, and the patron's device will be connected.









" KB0014155 Policies and Procedures Policies & Procedures - Facilities Non-Emergency Issue "

If a user calls to report a building issue that needs attention, they may submit a facilities maintenance request. Non-emergency issues include general building issues such as leaky faucets, light bulb replacements, etc.

To submit a maintenance request, fill out the Maintenance Request Form.

" KB0014897 Policies and Procedures Policies and Procedures - CAT Issue Reporting Procedure "

For CAT, an email should be sent to rats_support@oit.rutgers.edu outlining the nature of the issue with as much detail as possible.

For more information, consult the Rutgers Account Tools (RATS) webpage

" KB0014432 Policies and Procedures Policies and Procedures - DocuSign (Walk-in) "

DocuSign is a cloud-based document signing system licensed by Rutgers University. At the labs & Help Desk, DocuSign Power Forms are utilized in cases where a client has to sign a document authorizing the staff to perform a task, or to acknowledge a procedure (such as the Software Remediation and Router forms).

Software Remediation and Troubleshooting

Router Use Agreement

How Do I Use DocuSign?

Location: Links to the forms are located on the front station computer's homepage and in the bookmarks, in addition to being listed above.

On the DocuSign Power Form page, the user will need to enter their name and email address to proceed with the signing process.

Check off I agree to use electronic records and signatures and select Continue.

Scroll down on the document to the Signature Section.

Confirm the name, initials, and signature by selecting Adopt and Sign (Client can draw or upload their signature).

Select Finish to complete the signing process.

The user will receive a copy of the form to the email address they entered after they have completed their portion.

Once the user has selected finished and submitted the form, you can go to the ECS DocuSign Intermediary shared folder within Connect (sc_docusign@oit.rutgers.edu).

See How to view a shared mail folder if you need to add this folder.

All new forms will be in the Inbox folder, with the subject form name - user's name to allow you to find the relevant form.

Select Review document to complete your part of the signing process, where you will be required to enter additional information (i.e. MAC addresses, user's NetID, your NetID, and ticket number).

Once you have completed the signing process, please drag the email to the Completed folder.

KBB0010102Docusign - NetID Change



" KB0019426 Policies and Procedures Policies and Procedures - Help Desk Mentor Team Games "

The Help Desk Mentor Team Games run each semester from the first day of classes through the last day of finals.

The current status of the games can be viewed on the Merit Board or the TV located at the back of the Help Desk.

How Merit Scores are calculated

Scores are based on your Rating times the Merits you earned during the current semester.

Example: You have a Rating of 90 and have earned 30 Merits this semester. Your score is 27 (0.9 x 30 = 27).

Notes:

The Rating and Merits used to calculate scores are only those that are finalized. If you have any pending Infractions or Merits, they will not be reflected in your Score. Follow up with your Mento Team to finalize any outstanding items to ensure your score is up to date.
The Merit Board is updated manually by Supervisors. If the "Last Updated" time noted on the Merit Board is old, you can ask a Supervisor to run the numbers and update it.
How Team Scores are calculated

Since the number of people on a Mentor Team can vary across Teams, the Team Score is the average per person for that Team.

Example: The total of all individual Scores on an 8-person Mentor Team is 600. The Team Score is 75 (600 / 8 = 75).

Ways to increase your score
Earn Merits! Aim for high-value Merits, like emergency coverages or volunteering for tasks and projects.
Keep your Rating up! Infractions will lower your Rating and, by extension, your score, so ensure you are always putting your best foot forward on shift.
Ensure you're getting credit for your hard work! Follow up with a Supervisor to ensure they enter your Merits in PTS when you complete something on the Bounty Board.

" KB0018189 Policies and Procedures Policies and Procedures - Lost and found (Keys for EI Vehicle and Master Keys) "

The EI vehicle keys and the EI set of master keys each have a keychain with instructions to call the OIT Help Desk if they are lost and found. If someone calls in to report they have found the keys, notify a FT supervisor.

The FT supervisor should only send an email to the following individuals in the event the keys are found:

Lauren Kyriacou - LK452@oit.rutgers.edu
Andrew Gabriel - andrew16@oit.rutgers.edu
David Heller - hellerdj@oit.rutgers.edu

" KB0016872 Policies and Procedures Policies and Procedures - NATO Alphabet "

" KB0014891 Policies and Procedures Policies and Procedures - Phone Call Scripts "

Phone Greeting
REMEMBER!.. Always ask for personal information, never hand it out!

"Thank you for calling the OIT Help Desk. My name is [name]. May I please have the spelling of your NetID?"

"May I have a phone number where you can be reached in case we get disconnected?"

"Thank you, and may I have a current email address where we can send your ticket confirmation to?"

"Have you called about this issue before, and if so, do you already have a ticket number?"

Hold Reminders

Start writing your ticket during the call, and use Slack to send ticket numbers to supervisors before asking users to hold!

When asking users to hold

Could I ask you to hold for about two minutes?

If more time is needed after 2 minutes, ask

We are still looking into your issue. Would you like to continue to hold, or would you prefer a callback?

If the user would prefer to stay on hold:

Thank you, I ll check back with you within 5 minutes.

At the end of the call

If you need to call back about this issue, your Ticket number in our system is [ticket number]. You should be getting an email that includes your ticket number and a feedback survey.

Voicemail Script

"Hello, this call is for [user's name]. My name is [your name] from the OIT Help Desk.

You previously contacted us on [date] regarding issues with [problem]."

[Mention further instructions here if needed]

"If you are still facing issues, please call us back at 833-648-4357 and reference your ticket number [ticket number].

We are open today until [closing time]. If we do not hear back from you within 7 days, we will assume the issue is resolved.

Thank you for contacting us. Have a nice [day/night]."

*If we want the user to call back, then only give them the Help Desk number.

" KB0016939 Policies and Procedures Policies and Procedures - Promotional Pathway "

Table of Contents
Level 1 Lab Consultant
Payrate
Responsibilities
Requirements
Application Process
Training
Requirements to be promoted
Location of Work
Notes
Level 1 Help Desk (HD) Consultant
Payrate
Responsibilities
Requirements to apply
Application Process
Training
Requirements to be promoted
Location of Work
Level 2
Payrate
Responsibilities
Requirements to apply
Application Process
Training
Requirements to be promoted
Level 3 Assistant Supervisor in Training
Payrate
Responsibilities
Requirements to apply
Application Process
Training
Level 3 Assistant Supervisor
Payrate
Requirements to be promoted
Level 3 SIT
Payrate
Responsibilities
Requirements to apply
Application Process
Training
Level 3
Payrate
Responsibilities
Requirements to be promoted
Other Certifications
Email Certified
After Hours
Level 1 Lab Consultant
Payrate

$17.50

Responsibilities
Responsible for maintaining the lab environments and assisting users who walk-in to these locations.
Provide phone support during Temp periods and if needed for overflow.
Provide Email Support.
Requirements
Be in good standing in PTS with no un-finalized incidents
Work minimum hours on temp schedule
Request 3x desired hours for perm schedule (ie. If you would like to work 10 hours per week on the permanent schedule, request 24 hours on the requester.)
Application Process

Level 1 Lab Consultants are consultants that have made the permanent schedule in Level 1 Lab shifts.

Training
Consultant-in-Training Orientation Canvas Modules
Computer Labs - Site Specific Canvas Modules
CIT Trainings
Zoom
KBB0010165Training - CIT Training 1st Part (Zoom)
In-person
KBB0010166Supervisor Documentation - CIT Training 2nd Part (In-Person)
Back to School Trainings (start of every semester)
Requirements to be promoted
All required training is completed, and have shifts on a permanent schedule.
Be in good standing in PTS with no un-finalized incidents
Location of Work

Level 1 Lab Consultants work out of the Labs exclusively.

Notes

Level 1 Lab Consultants must complete the Level 2 Modules and Level 2 In-Person Training within their first year of employment with OIT.

Level 1 Help Desk (HD) Consultant
Payrate

$17.50

Responsibilities
Take first level phone calls and select email support as needed.
Assist walk-ins with appropriate issues as assigned by Level 2 Consultants.
Requirements to apply
Be in good standing in PTS with no un-finalized incidents
Must complete the Level 1 HD Modules and Level 1 HD In-Person Training within their first year of employment with OIT.
Request 3x desired hours for perm schedule (ie. If you would like to work 10 hours per week on the permanent schedule, request 24 hours on the requester.)
Application Process

Level 1 HD Consultants are consultants that have the majority of their shifts on the Level 1 HD permanent schedule.

Training
Level 1 HD Canvas Modules
Level 1 HD In-Person Training
KBB0010202
Supervisor Documentation - Level 1 CIT Training
Back to School Trainings (start of every semester)
Requirements to be promoted
Complete Level 1 HD Modules
Complete Level 1 HD In-Person Training
All required training is completed, and have shifts on a permanent schedule.
Be in good standing in PTS with no un-finalized incidents
Location of Work

Level 1 HD Consultants work out of the Help Desk exclusively.

Level 2
Payrate

$18.50 only when you have minimum hours on the Level 2 permanent schedule.

Responsibilities

In the Help Desk:

Take over long/difficult calls, and escalate to supervisors when necessary
Take SDM calls
Take ITS calls
Provide Chat support
Respond to more complex emails as needed
Respond to ITS emails
Bomgar
Monitor and assist Level 2 consultants
Staff the front desk and assist users with hands-on user device support/troubleshooting or delegate to Level 1 consultants as needed
Review open incidents and requests for follow up
Review closed incidents and requests for quality assurance
May be asked to take all calls if there are scheduling gaps

In the lab locations:

Respond to more complex emails
Review open incidents and requests for follow up
Review closed incidents and requests for quality assurance
Maintain lab environment
Provide hands-on user device support/troubleshooting
Provide on site support for student residence halls (dispatch)
Provide on site support for ITS supported units (ITS)
May be asked to staff desk if scheduling gaps
Requirements to apply
Be in good standing in PTS with no un-finalized incidents
Be on Level 2 permanent schedule
Level 1 Labs to Level 2 will have to take a minimum number of coverages where they are skilled as a Level 1 HD to be promoted to Level 2.
Application Process

Level 2 consultants have the majority of shifts on the Level 2 schedule(s).

Training
Level 2 Canvas Modules
ITS Canvas Modules
Level 2 In-Person Training
KBB0010194Supervisor Documentation - Level 2 Training (In-Person)
Dispatch Training (If taking shifts on the dispatch schedule)
KBB0010195Supervisor Documentation - Level 2 Training (Dispatch)
After-Hours Training (If taking shifts on the After Hours schedule)
KBB0010197Supervisor Documentation - Level 2 Training (After Hours)
Requirements to be promoted
Help Desk
Complete L2 Canvas Modules
Complete ITS Canvas Modules
Meet minimum hours in L2 shifts on the permanent schedule
Be Email Certified
Dispatch
Complete L2 Modules
Complete ITS Canvas Modules
Meet minimum hours in L2 shifts on the permanent schedule
Be Email Certified
Work out of a Lab location
After-Hours
Complete L2 Modules
Complete ITS Canvas Modules
After-Hours (in person) Training completed based on availability of After-Hours shifts.
Be Email Certified
Be After Hours Certified
Must work on-site in Hill Center.
Must have at least 1 permanent L2 shift at the Help Desk.
Level 3 Assistant Supervisor in Training
Payrate

$0.50 bump on your current pay rate

Responsibilities
Opening/closing responsibilities
Overseeing and supporting Level 1 and 2 consultants
May be asked to staff the desk at lab, do dispatch appointments, or take calls based on scheduling gaps
Provide advanced support for Level 1 and 2, handling emails and/or chat support
Requirements to apply
Be in good standing in PTS with no un-finalized incidents.
Graduation date should be 2 years from year of application.
Must have completed Level 1 and Level 2 Trainings.
All SITs will be selected from the pool of Level 2 consultants who have permanent shifts.
Interested candidates MUST have worked a level 2 shift in the HD or be able to take a level 2 shift.
Application Process
When positions are available, the appropriate management team will send an email with an interest form and instructions.
Complete the application form.
Interview if selected by the management team.
Training
Across the board training
Scheduling/coverage
Rounds
Lost and found
Zed
PTS (finalizing infractions)
Loaning items
Cleaning
EOS
Mentor Teams/Consultant Review
Help Desk Specific
SIT Training Part 1
KBB0010171Supervisor Documentation - HD Level 3 Assistant Supervisor Training (Part 1)
SIT Training Part 2
KBB0010172Supervisor Documentation - HD Level 3 Assistant Supervisor Training (Part 2)
After-Hours Training (If not completed as an L2)
KBB0010197Supervisor Documentation - Level 2 Training (After Hours)
SIT Mentorship with a Level 3 Supervisor
KBB0010174Supervisor Documentation - HD SIT Mentorship Program
SIT Checklist
KBB0010173Supervisor Documentation - HD Level 3 Assistant Supervisor Checklist
Labs Specific
SIT Checklist
Dispatch Training (If not completed as a L2)
KBB0010195Supervisor Documentation - Level 2 Training (Dispatch)
Level 3 Assistant Supervisor
Payrate

$20.50

Requirements to be promoted
Be in good standing in PTS with no un-finalized incidents
Complete all required training
Active member in Primary and Secondary Committees
Completion of SIT Checklist
Management approval of promotion
Level 3 SIT
Payrate

$22.00 only once certified as a Level 3 Supervisor

Responsibilities
All Assistant Supervisor duties
Additional shift scheduling responsibilities as assigned
Requirements to apply
Be in good standing in PTS with no un-finalized incidents
Active member in Primary and Secondary Committees
Be an Assistant Supervisor
Application Process
When positions are available, an email will be sent out by appropriate management team instructions.
Respond to email/complete application form.
Interview if selected by management team.
Training
Level 3 Training
KBB0010177
Supervisor Documentation - HD Level 3 CSQ
Scheduling Training
L3 SIT Mentorship with a FT Mentor (HD Only)
ZED training
Level 3
Payrate

$22.00

Responsibilities



Requirements to be promoted
Be in good standing in PTS with no un-finalized incidents
Complete SIT Mentorship with a L3 or FT
Complete all required training for all positions
Active member in Primary and Secondary Committees
Management approval of promotion
Other Certifications
Email Certified
Responsibilities
Avoid emails that can be easily responded to via a template
Provide assistance with emails posted in Slack channel: esd_nb_hd_email
Provide draft approvals or help consultants edit their emails posted in Slack channel: esd_nb_hd_email
Further email support procedures can be found within the Email Support Procedures Knowledge Article.
Requirements to Apply
Consultant should have at least 30-40 non-template emails that were already draft approved by a previously email certified consultant
ServiceNow tickets should have all fields filled out correctly (State, Assignment Group, Watchlist, etc.)
Worknotes and emails sent out should be detailed and contain step-by-step troubleshooting
Worknotes should have relevant Open Registry, NetID Management, and/or CAT information
Both worknotes and emails sent should contain any Knowledge Articles or applicable guides
Both worknotes and emails sent must be written in a friendly, professional, and grammatically correct manner
Application Process
Consultants who believe they are ready to be graded on their email support should fill out the Email Support Certification Requester.
For question 3. Which Module are you submitting for grading? Select Email Support Certification
Supervisors will review the consultant's email support tickets and emails sent to users. Afterwards, the consultant would be informed of their certification status via Connect email
KBB0010175
Supervisor Documentation - Email Certification
After Hours
Responsibilities
Respond to more complex emails
Review open incidents and requests for follow up
Review closed incidents and requests for quality assurance
Take after hours calls
Monitor and report environment (after hours)
Scheduling Requirements
Temporary Scheduling Periods: After-Hours Certified Consultants are required to work a minimum of two After-Hours shifts during each temporary scheduling period.
Permanent Scheduling Periods: After-Hours Certified Consultants are required to request a minimum of two shifts on the After-Hours schedule. Additionally, they must be assigned and maintain at least one permanent After-Hours shift in order to retain their permanent schedule placement.
Requirements to apply
Be in good standing in PTS with no un-finalized incidents
Meet minimum hours in L2 shifts on the permanent schedule
Application Process

Speak to Full Time to confirm availability and schedule training

Training

After-Hours Training (If taking shifts on the After Hours schedule)

KBB0010197Supervisor Documentation - Level 2 Training (After Hours)
Requirements to be promoted

Complete all training

" KB0016743 Policies and Procedures Policies and Procedures - PTS Overview "

Table of Contents
What is PTS?
What are Incident Reports?
How is one's Performance Rating recalculated?
Types of Merits
50 Merit Incidents
30 Merit Incidents
10 to 30 Merit Incidents
3 Merit Incidents
Calculation of Coverage Merits
Types of Infractions
Minor Infractions - (-10) Merits
Moderate Infractions - (-30) Merits
Major Infractions - (-50) Merits
Egregious Behavior
PTS Terms and the Calculation of Values

What is PTS?

PTS is short for Performance Tracking System, a system used by consultants and supervisors that allows supervisors to monitor consultants' positive and negative behavior as merits and infractions, respectively.

What are Incident Reports?

When a supervisor enters an entry into the Performance Tracking database, a report will be generated. This report will show the relevant incident data. Consultants must meet within 7 days, regardless of extenuating circumstances, to discuss any infractions; otherwise, it will be finalized as-is. Failure to cooperate with the resolution of a Performance Tracking report will result in the given Performance Rating reduction being applied, with the possibility of additional disciplinary action.

How is one's Performance Rating recalculated?

Recalculation only occurs on the specified dates at the end of each semester. Merits are applied to your Performance Rating until it reaches 100% or no more merits remain. All remaining merits will be held until the next recalculation. CITs not promoted in the Fall will be recalculated if promoted in the Spring. Consultants on leave will be recalculated if their leave crosses a recalculation date. The recalculation dates are as follows:

Summer Date: 8/21/2025

Fall Date: 1/5/2026

Spring Date: 5/19/2026

Types of Merits
50 Merit Incidents
Consultant of the Semester Award
Permanent assignment for a hard-to-fill shift
30 Merit Incidents
Consultant of the Month Award
Promotion
10 to 30 Merit Incidents
Volunteering for tasks or projects
Special Projects
Exceptional handling of a situation
Exceptional service
Exceptional attitude or work ethic
Emergency Coverage (Please see Calculation of Coverage Merits for more information)
Exceptional Performance during training
3 Merit Incidents
Completing extra work at management discretion
Exceptional service based on customer feedback
Taking Coverage
Volunteering to staff the Help Desk front station
Arriving early (15 minutes or more) to a Help Desk shift
Calculation of Coverage Merits
Taking Coverage: 3 merits - Any coverage for another consultant
Emergency Coverage Low: 10 merits - When a consultant stays after their shift for 10-20 mins or until their relief arrives late, or when covering a day in advance (if applicable)
Emergency Coverage Medium: 20 merits - Coverage for the next day (non-opening shifts)
Emergency Coverage High: 30 merits - Coverage for the day of (even if it s partial) - Coverage for the opening shift the next morning
Types of Infractions
Minor Infractions - (-10) Merits
Lateness under 15 minutes
Failure to follow coverage procedures
Failure to sign in/out properly
Inattention to responsibilities and/or users
Poor work ethic or attitude (Minor)
Poor communication
Failure to use Slack as intended
Failure to wear a badge or display a nameboard
Minor substandard ticket writing
Failure to perform or record lab rounds
Failure to submit shift reports
Failure to clean according to schedule
Failure to take stats properly
Failure to set up/shut down IML on time for class
*Failure to comply with the max work hours policy
*Lateness of 15 minutes or more, with notice
*Lateness to staff meeting/training
*Failure to follow shift turn-over protocol - leaving without relief/unauthorized breaks
*Minor failure to enforce/follow procedure or rules
*Minor failure to cooperate with management and coworkers
*Failure to address or escalate a problem correctly
*Failure to read/respond to work email promptly
*Failure to complete the assigned task/project by the deadline
*Misuse of mailing lists
*Failure to follow uniform policy (Minor)
* First instance during a semester is noted as a warning
Moderate Infractions - (-30) Merits
Missed training/staff meeting without notice
Shift lateness of 15 mins or more, without notice
Lateness of 1 hour or more
Poor customer service
Poor work ethic or attitude (Moderate)
Failure to follow uniform policy (Major)
Failure to enforce/follow procedures or rules
Failure to cooperate with management and coworkers
Substandard ticket writing
Failure to report to a dorm visit promptly
Failure to follow monitoring procedures
Failure to complete machine room rounds/console checks
Major Infractions - (-50) Merits
Missed shift/mandatory training
Egregious Behavior

The following are examples of infractions that may result in disciplinary action, including a reduction in your Performance Rating, probation, suspension, or termination. This list is by no means exhaustive, and full-time managers can terminate the employment of any OIT employee at any time for egregious behavior, regardless of that employee's Performance Rating/probation status. Minimal disciplinary action for egregious behavior will be a 50 Merit Performance Rating reduction. Some incidents in this category may also require legal action or penalties under university policy. Any incidence of egregious behavior, including violations of the Acceptable Use Policy, University Harassment Policy, and University Code of Conduct, can affect an employee's standing at OIT, even if the violation occurred outside of work. Terminated consultants are not eligible for rehire by OIT.

Abuse/Unapproved use of staff accounts, privileges, resources, or equipment
Abuse of staff telephones (liable for all unauthorized toll charges)
Abuse of staff/user personal information
Compromising equipment warranty/damaging equipment
Excessive bandwidth usage on the staff machine
Failure to meet professional expectations
Falsifying official records
Going on probation multiple times
Insubordination
Mistreatment of others
Sleeping while on duty
Theft
Unapproved use of OIT facilities
Unauthorized work without a uniform
Violation of the Acceptable Use Policy
Violation of the University Harassment Policy
Working under the influence of illegal substances or alcohol
PTS Terms and the Calculation of Values

Performance Rating: This indicates your current status. As infractions occur, your Performance Rating will decrease by the percentage points indicated for the infraction. At 0%, you are on probation.

Merits: Merits may be earned for activities exceeding the expected level of Performance. These merits will accumulate until a recalculation is reached. The accumulated merits will be applied to your Performance Rating until the rating reaches 100% or all merits are exhausted. Any remaining merits will be held until the next recalculation.

Excused: Circumstances surrounding this infraction do not lead to a reduction.

Tracking: Used to monitor patterns of behavior. Does not result in a decreased performance rating per incident. Does not affect perfect Performance.

Warning: Used to record the first instance during a semester of certain infractions. This does affect perfect Performance.

Breaks: Any extended period of time you are not scheduled to work, including Winter Break, Summer Break, Spring Break, and other approved leaves of absence.

Probation: Occurs when the Performance Rating reaches 0%. Any more than 1 minor infraction or any major infraction while on probation will result in automatic termination. The consultant will be ineligible for the annual raise in the year they were placed on probation. Probation lasts for 60 days, excluding breaks. The consultant will be ineligible for any promotional opportunities and certifications during the probationary period. Upon completion of probation, the performance rating rises to 30%. If probation falls within a recalculation period, the recalculation will be done after probation.

Termination: Loss of all shifts with all groups. No longer eligible for rehire by any group within OIT.



" KB0019149 Policies and Procedures Policies and Procedures - Research Guidelines "

Step 1: Collect information and identify user issue

Collect all relevant user information and input it into the Service-Now ticket.

Identify the user issue and specify what they are seeking assistance with in work notes.

Always provide a detailed explanation for what the user is asking for and ask for clarification if necessary.

Check the user's related tickets to see if the issue is ongoing or if they already have an open incident. To do this: In the Service Operations Workspace in ServiceNow, click the "i" icon to the right of the user's name in the Subject Person field. Then, in the new tab that opens, click on Related Records > Incidents.

Step 2: Check Knowledge Articles

Search the Knowledge Article database for solutions to frequently asked questions and step-by-step guides.

Step 3: Search ServiceNow for related tickets

Search Service-Now using keywords to find related tickets and check the steps that were taken to resolve the issue.

Step 4: Search Slack for related tickets

Search Slack using keywords to find related tickets and review the steps taken to resolve the issue.

Step 5: Use online research

Use online research through search engines, such as Google, to explore potential solutions for more general questions.

Step 6: Ask Level 2/Assistant Supervisor

If available, ask peers for guidance.

Ask in #esd_nb_hd_all for further assistance.

Step 7: Ask CSq

If all other steps did not help to resolve the issue, ask FT/L3 in CSq for assistance after posting the ticket in #esd_nb_hd_all and including all relevant information in the incident.

" KB0015945 Policies and Procedures Policies and Procedures - Resources to Handle a Difficult User "

Have the Right Mental Attitude

The user is probably not mad at you specifically. They are more likely frustrated by the situation as a whole. By putting yourself in the right mental state, you can stay calm and professional when responding to the user.

Develop Thick Skin

Along with having the right mental attitude, developing thick skin can prevent the user from pushing your buttons and riling you up. Let go of your fear. By viewing demanding customers as a new challenge rather than a condemnation.

Empathize with the User

People who are upset need to be heard, so let your customers talk, and don t interrupt them.

Things to keep in mind
Practice active listening

It is essential to engage in active listening, which is the practice of consciously assimilating what the other party has to say instead of just standing silently in front of them.
If the user is in person, active listening also entails listening with your whole body. This means using positive body language, such as having an open stance and nodding, to show the other person you re listening.
Make them feel that they re taken seriously.
Make sure that the user knows that you are taking their concern seriously. This can be done by maintaining eye contact and exhibiting the right non-verbal behaviors (like not smiling, excessively nodding, or rolling your eyes). In addition, refer to your customer by name, as it makes people feel they re being heard and could help calm them down.
Respond with empathy
Instead of responding defensively, respond with empathy. Saying things like;

I can see why you re disappointed
Oh dear, that s not what you would have expected
I can understand why you re upset can show the customer that you understand where they are coming from.
Explain Yourself Clearly

Once you have gathered your information, explaining the problem and solution as clearly as possible is crucial. This will help you avoid a customer asking you to repeat yourself, saving valuable time.

Here are suggestions on how to convey information as comprehensively as possible:

Speak at an even pace, and don t hurry.
Use common terms that the customer will understand and avoid technical jargon.
Pause between sentences.
Practice reciting policy procedures during your downtime to relay them flawlessly.
Reduce Hold Times

Lengthy hold times can dramatically increase handle times and leave the user more time to think of more things to discuss. Thus, shortening hold times can go a long way to reducing chit-chat with users.

Be Mindful of Verbal and non-Verbal Cues.

The things you say and don t say can significantly affect the outcome of any customer interaction. Signs of boredom, impatience, or aggression will only escalate the situation. So, be very mindful of your words and the body language you project.

Verbal Cues:
I apologize. I didn t hear/understand what you said.
Will you? rather than You will.
Yes, rather than Yeah.
Sir.
Ma am.
I ll check and be right back.
Will you hold for a moment while I check on that?
Thanks for waiting.
Mr./Mrs./Ms. _____. (Address by the first name only if you know what s appropriate)
Non-Verbal Cues:

Body language is an important tool that can give the right or wrong signals depending on your appearance. Good non-verbal cues can be:

Nodding
Eye contact
Note taking

Make sure to avoid queues such as;

Closed fists
Folded arms
Eye rolling

These can aggravate the user.

Ask Direct Questions

When you have a talkative user on the line, don t ask open-ended questions that require lengthy answers unless necessary. This will open up the door for them to slip into unrelated topics. Asking direct questions that need yes or no answers will keep the conversation straight and to the point and significantly reduce tangential discussions.

Communicate What You Can and Can t do About Their Situation

Instead of saying things like there is nothing I can do, say what you can and cannot assist them with.

Being upfront with the user is also recommended.

Addressing a user s concerns quickly may turn their negative experience into a positive one.

Act Quickly

If you can resolve the customer s problem immediately, then, by all means, do so. However, the longer an issue takes to resolve, the more frustrated the user can get, resulting in more aggravation.

Resources to Use
LinkedIn - How to deal with Difficult Customers.
LinkedIn Learning - Customer Service: Working in a Customer Contact Center.
Talk Desk - How to Handle a Talkative Customer on the Phone.

" KB0014316 Policies and Procedures Policies and Procedures - Sensitive information and media/press inquiries "

As a member of OIT you are trusted with information and internal communications (especially concerning policy and procedures) that is NOT meant to be shared freely. Do not divulge any potentially sensitive, confidential, or internal OIT information that is not already known to the user, either voluntarily or if requested. If you notice a policy or procedure that was not properly followed by staff, or notice a circumstance that could cause a perception of liability for OIT, do not pass this information along to the user and instead escalate it internally as appropriate. If you are unsure of what can and can not be provided to a user, refer to FT for guidance.

As a staff member, you are not permitted to represent or speak on behalf of OIT on social media or any other website or forum.

If contacted by Media (Targum or other news outlets) about OIT issues, state that you are not authorized to speak on this matter. Take down contact information for this person and the topic they are asking about. Pass this information onto the full time staff by sending an email to hd_mgr@oit.rutgers.edu and copying itcomm@rutgers.edu with the details of the request.

Know that OIT crafts public messages very delicately, as we want to ensure information is being presented correctly and tactfully. If you see any OIT related conversations in social media getting heated, bring the matter to FT staff's attention rather than getting involved. Engaging in the conversation to attempt to clarify policy, or even to direct users to publicly posted policies, puts you at risk for misrepresenting OIT.



" KB0018337 Policies and Procedures Policies and Procedures - Shift Guidance for Remote Work "

Table of Contents
Getting Started (Before Shift)
Slack Channel
VPN Download
Setting Up Voicemail
Whitelisting the OIT Help Desk number
Starting Your Shift
Zed Guidelines
Signing In and Signing Out of Your Shift
Taking Breaks
Communication Tools (Five9 and Slack)
Five9
Slack
Reminders and Special Cases
Information Confidentiality
Shift Responsibilities
Faculty/ Staff Help Desk
Communication
Ending Your Shift
Getting Started (Before Shift)

Before starting your shift, please be mindful of the space around you. It is important you are working in a quiet private space, as you will be accessing confidential information.

Slack Channel

Slack will be used to communicate with your colleagues and supervisors about any issues or questions you may have while on shift. Log in to Slack at https://rutgers.slack.com/ with your netid@rutgers.edu.

VPN Download

You will need to download the VPN client in order to access and utilize certain sites and tools.

If you have activated the VPN service and have downloaded the client, please skip to the Setting Up Voicemail section.

To get started, go to https://it.rutgers.edu/virtual-private-network/.
If you have not done so already, you will need to Activate VPN through NetID Service Activation before downloading the client.
After activating the VPN platform service, go to the General VPN Connectivity Details and Instructions for installation.

For further information and guidance on the VPN, please refer to the Virtual Private Network page.

Be sure to sign into the VPN before you sign in to your shifts on Zed, your sign-in will be flagged.

Setting Up Voicemail

The phone system should not send calls to your personal voicemail. If the call goes to voicemail, ensure your voicemail greeting is professional.

Although your voicemail will be set up, we prefer that calls not go to voicemail. Please read below for additional information.

Whitelisting the OIT Help Desk number

When using your personal phone with Five9, incoming calls are routed to you via the main OIT Help Desk number. iPhones and Androids have settings that either silence or "auto screen" calls from an unknown number. To keep users from getting an automated screening prompt when they are rerouted to your phone, ensure to add the OIT Help Desk number as a contact on your phone:

848-445-4357

Starting Your Shift
Sign into your shift via Zed: https://zed.rutgers.edu/. Please comment Working remotely
Have your tools ready:

Rutgers Connect: https://connect.rutgers.edu/
ServiceNow: https://rutgers.service-now.com/
NetID Admin: https://netid.rutgers.edu/adminAuthenticate.htm
Open Registry: https://registry.rutgers.edu/
CAT: https://rats.rutgers.edu/cat
Five9: https://rutgers.service-now.com/ (Select the phone  icon)
Slack: https://rutgers.slack.com/
Bomgar: https://remotehelp.edm.rutgers.edu/login/login
Please note that only Level 1 consultants and above can access Bomgar.
For further information on Bomgar, you can refer to the documentation listed below:
Bomgar - Information and Policies
Open Resources:
Phone Call Scripts
Research Guidelines
NATO Alphabet
Log into Slack: https://rutgers.slack.com/
Once you are logged into Slack, message into esd_nb_hd_all to let the supervisors and other consultants know that you are on duty.
Zed Guidelines
Signing In and Signing Out of Your Shift

Consultants working from a remote location should sign in and out of their shift via Zed, https://zed.rutgers.edu/. Please comment Working remotely in the Shift Comments section.

Taking Breaks

If you need to take a break (ie. lunch break) or step away from your duties for any reason, please make sure to communicate your break time to supervisors in the esd_nb_hd_all Slack channel and to set the appropriate status in Five9 (ie. Be Right Back, Lunch, etc.). If you are taking a break of 15 minutes or more, please ensure that you include this break time in Zed.

Communication Tools (Five9 and Slack)
Five9
Logging In

Consultants working remotely will be using their personal phone number in the PTSN field (ie. +10001112222) to receive calls instead of the station ID.

Missed Calls and Voicemail

While working remotely, it is essential to be attentive to phone calls. Unfortunately, missed calls may result in a voicemail that you can only access when using your personal phone number to take incoming calls.

If you are stepping away from your duties for any reason, please keep the following in mind:

Make sure to communicate your being away to supervisors and FT in the esd_nb_hd_all Slack channel.
Set the appropriate Five9 status to ensure you do not receive calls while you are away
Do not decline calls. Declining calls will result in a voicemail. If you are finishing up your shift and receive a last-minute call, accept the call and transfer to the next available consultant.
Declining/avoiding/refusing/disconnecting calls will result in probation/suspension/termination of your position

If you miss a call or receive a voicemail, please notify the on-duty supervisors on Slack. You should then proceed to review the voicemail and reach out to the caller. As stated earlier, please ensure your voicemail is set up and professional.

Calling Supervisor or FT

If a consultant is unable to get a response or assistance from anyone currently on shift, it is advised that they call the Supervisors line in Five9 by:

New Call > Contacts > Select a Supervisor with a 

You may also call the Supervisors' line by dialing 833-OIT-HELP and then entering #6.

Slack
Slack should be used to communicate when we are signing in, on break, or signing out of a shift.
Slack should be used to ask for assistance or address any issues regarding incoming phone calls and incidents.
In the event that Slack goes down or you cannot reach a Supervisor or FT by Slack, you can reach out to us via the supervisor's line.
Reminders and Special Cases
Information Confidentiality

As mentioned previously, be mindful of the space you are working from and the people around you. It is important that you work in a quiet, private space, as the information you will access is confidential.

Shift Responsibilities

While working remotely, consultants are still expected to adhere to their shift responsibilities. This includes but is not limited to answering emails, following up on general queue incidents, and submitting your EoS.

For an outline of your shift responsibilities, please refer to the Policies and Procedures - Shift Responsibilities documentation: https://rutgers.service-now.com/kb_view.do?sysparm_article=KB0016267

Faculty/ Staff Help Desk

During this time, Faculty/Staff Help Desk will be open and operating their normal business hours M-F 7:30 AM - 5:00 PM.

If the Faculty/Staff Help Desk experiences an overflow of calls after a 2-minute hold time, callers will be given the option to speak with a student consultant, who may direct them to a Level 1 consultant for further assistance. Upon receiving the call, you should hear, Faculty Staff Overflow. If a call cannot be handled by the Student Help Desk, it can be redirected to the FSHD using the "Faculty Staff Overflow Return" option. This option allows you to redirect the call back to FSHD without placing it at the back of the call queue. This should *ONLY* be used to return those calls and should *NOT* be used to transfer calls that reached the student help desk in another way. This option will only be available to callers who reach a 4-minute hold time, and who are calling on the following topics:

NetID /Password
Scarletmail
WebEx
Connect
Communication

As always, supervisors and FT are available to support consultants while working remotely. In addition to the array of tools available during your shift, please do not hesitate to reach out with questions or to inform us of your break absence. Communication is key to the success of working remotely.

Ending Your Shift
Message esd_nb_hd_all Slack channel that your shift has ended and that you will be signing out of Five9.
Log out of Five9.
Submit your EoS. Please note that any consultant working a remote shift must still submit an EoS.
Log out of your shift via Zed.

For further documentation on shift responsibilities, please review the following documentation:

https://rutgers.service-now.com/kb_view.do?sysparm_article=KB0016267

" KB0014384 Policies and Procedures Policies and Procedures - Slack "

Slack is a messaging tool used by OIT staff.

Channels

Please read the descriptions below to understand the purpose of some channels.

ESD_General: This channel is for team-wide communication.

ESD_Outage_Degradation: Announce/discuss service outages and degradations that can potentially impact users. Only FT and Sups should post in this channel.

ESD_NB_HD_All: Designated for all NB Help Desk/Labs staff for general questions when assisting users. Use @here when posting in this channel, and always include the Incident number.

ESD_NB_HD_Email: Designated for all NB Help Desk/Labs staff for questions regarding incidents in the email queue. Use @here when posting in this channel and always include the Incident number.

ESD_Random: Casual, non-work-related conversation.

ESD_NB_HD_Food: Casual food-related conversation.

ESD_NB_HD_News: Used for announcements, reminders, or general FYI. Only FT should post in this channel.

Using Slack

Please log in to Slack at the start of every shift. The desktop version of Slack has been installed on all Help Desk computers. If you are experiencing issues with the desktop version of Slack, you can also access Slack on a browser at https://rutgers.slack.com/. Slack uses CAS, so please log in with your NetID and password.

Please note that our team's Slack URL is https://rutgers.slack.com/. You will need that information to log in to Slack.

If you are using Slack in a browser, you will need to enable Slack notifications.

Please be sure to check the Outage Degradation channel and review the NB HD All and General channels during your shifts.

Do not use @channel when posting.

While on shift, please update your Profile to include our location (Help Desk, Application Support, ARC, Loree, AB, DLC, Tillet, etc.) This can be done by selecting your icon in the top-right corner, then editing your Profile > Profile > School/Department/Unit.

Outage Degradation

As a Consultant, please do not post in ESD_Outage_Degradation for general banter or troubleshooting issues.

If you have additional information to provide about a known outage, please reply to this thread.

If you have information regarding an unreported outage while on shift, please speak with a Supervisor.

Enabling Slack notifications on the browser
On your desktop, click your profile picture in the top-right corner.
Select Preferences > Notification.
Under Notify me about... , choose your notification riggers. It is recommended to choose Direct
messages, mentions & keywords for getting all important updates.
To use different triggers for your mobile notifications, check the box next to Use different settings for
my mobile devices, then select your preference from the drop-down menu.
To allow Windows for notifications, please allow Slack permission to enable desktop notifications by accepting the notification alert at the bottom of the screen.
KBB0010105Slack



" KB0016267 Policies and Procedures Policies and Procedures - Student Consultant Manual "

Table of Contents
Policies And Customer Service
Mission, Vision and Values Statement
Code of Conduct
Customer Service
Work Hours & Scheduling
Temporary Schedule
Permanent Schedule
Finals Schedule
Hours Requirement
Campus Limitations
Attendance
Commitment to Your Role
Transportation Responsibility
Training Attendance
Sign Ins
Breaks
Lateness
Calling Out/Emergency Call Outs
Earned Sick Leave (ESL)
Coverages
Overtime
Leave of Absence
Clarification of Attendance and Call Out Policies
Recording of Attendance Incidents
Excusals
Infraction Excusal Request Process
Dress Code
Consultant rules
Cell Phone Usage
Inappropriate or offensive materials
Music playing
Games/Chat/Watching Movies
Food/Drinks
Job Responsibilities
General Duties/Responsibilities
Answering the phones
Slack
Email
Staff Page
Cleaning Schedule
Dispatch Appointments
Walk-Ins
End Of Shift (EOS) Reports
Finding Answers
Dealing with Difficult Situations
Assisting Persons with Disabilities
Shift Responsibilities
Consultants in Training (CIT)
Level 1 Lab Responsibilities
Level 1 Help Desk Responsibilities
Level 2 Help Desk Responsibilities
Level 2 Lab Responsibilities
Level 2 After Hours Responsibilities
Opening/Closing Responsibilities
Opening at Busch
Closing at Busch
Opening at College Avenue
Closing at College Avenue
Opening at Cook/Douglass
Closing at Cook/Douglass
Opening at the Help Desk
Closing at the Help Desk
Opening at Livingston
Closing at Livingston
Periodic Responsibilities in the Computer Labs
Hourly Usage Stats
Maintaining Printers in the Computer Labs
Reporting Down Machines in the Computer Labs
Reservations in the Computer Labs for the Instructional Microcomputing Labs
Patron Bookable Rooms
Inventory in the labs
Patron and Facility Management
Consultant Area and Staff Machines
Authorized Personnel
Emergency Situations
Network/Lab Outages
Overheating
Fire alarm
Bomb Threats
Power Outage
Leak/Floods
Reporting Incidents
Lost and Found
Loaning Items
General Lab Rules & Regulations
Enforcing lab/patron rules and regulations
Food and Drinks
Unattended Workstations in the Labs
Cell Phone Policy in the Labs
Replacing Bad Printouts in the Labs
Balance Adjustment in the Labs
Media Copying in the Labs
Scanning in the Labs
Accountability
Inappropriate or offensive material
Appropriate use of privileges
Appropriate use of staff machines
Confidentiality
Providing Internal Contact Info
NetIDs
Password Security
SSNs and RUIDs
Pseudo Social Security Numbers (SSN) for Guest Roles
Press/Media Policy
Harassment
Integrity
Falsifying Official Documents
Printing
Software Piracy And Copyright Infringement
Substance Abuse
Human Resources
Employee classes
Changes in Employee Classes
Pay Rates
Paychecks
Direct Deposit
Parking Permits
After Hours Parking
Employee Development
Consultant Reviews/Mentoring
Busch
Cook/Douglass
College Ave
Help Desk
Livingston
Performance Tracking System (PTS)
Employee Recognition Program
Promotions
Pop-Up Help Desk Opportunity
Job Connections and Recommendations
Conclusions

Back to top



As a student IT worker, you hold a unique position at the intersection of technology and academia. You are the go-to person for your peers and faculty members when it comes to solving technical issues, providing support, and maintaining a reliable computing environment. This manual is designed to equip you with the knowledge and skills necessary to excel in your role and make a meaningful impact on campus

Policies And Customer Service
Mission, Vision and Values Statement
Mission
The mission of The Office of Information Technology (OIT) is to provide university-wide leadership in information technology and quality information technology services in support of Rutgers University's mission of instruction, research, and service.
Vision
We will be a role model within the higher education community for customer satisfaction and service excellence using innovative strategies and advanced technologies, through a unified multi-faceted approach.
Values
We believe that the organization's greatest asset is its staff. We encourage and support professional development activities that meet the goals of the organization. We embrace a set of values, take personal responsibility, and are accountable for our daily actions.
Teamwork
We extend cooperation and support to our colleagues and customers throughout the Rutgers University community. We hold team goals paramount while encouraging and recognizing both individual and team achievements.
Innovation
We embrace creative solutions, different perspectives, and new opportunities. We provide leadership for the university in introducing and applying information technology.
Professionalism
We are knowledgeable in state-of-the-art information technology and apply our knowledge in accordance with the best professional practices. We empower each other and use good judgment in performing our duties and activities. We value the benefits of diversity and treat all individuals with respect.
Integrity
We are trustworthy and honest in all of our actions. We adhere to a high standard of ethics in our professional relationships.
Initiative
We identify opportunities and promote appropriate uses of information technology. We proactively take steps to increase our customers' awareness of information technology as a means to achieve their objectives.
Code of Conduct

OIT consultants' responsibilities are to provide aid to the Rutgers patron community: the students, faculty, and staff who are affiliated with Rutgers University. The Consultant Code of Conduct, which is stated below, guides consultants on providing this service: Consultants are OIT s most visible representatives. The way in which they conduct themselves in dealing with students, faculty, and fellow consultants is just as important as the support they provide. The images that they are expected to project are those of helpful, courteous, and technically competent individuals. While on duty, they have the authority and responsibility to operate their sites in an equitable, impartial, and orderly manner. They are further entrusted with the proper operation and security of the resources available to them at their sites. Finally, they are expected to answer patron questions to the best of their ability. Every consultant who is employed by OIT must follow the Code of Conduct.

Those who cannot fulfill the responsibilities expected of them are subject to disciplinary action. Consultants are required to wear their Rutgers, Office of Information Technology polo shirts during every shift. Consultants will not be permitted to work a shift without their provided work attire. Failure to comply will subject the consultant to disciplinary action.

Customer Service

OIT consultants should be polite and understanding when answering questions. Everyone has been in a position in which they were not quite sure of something and were afraid to ask questions. Consultants should consider how patrons feel and try to understand that not everyone is a computer expert. The following strategies may be helpful in providing the exemplary level of customer service that consultants are expected to offer:

Consultants should listen carefully to patrons' questions. Listening passively is not sufficient; consultants must actively listen. They must be sure to understand the problems patrons present to them in order to provide the correct solutions.
Consultants can begin to express this understanding simply by repeating questions back to patrons using their own words.
Consultants should give patrons their undivided attention. Answering patron questions is their number one priority and they should not allow themselves to become distracted.
At times, patrons may ask questions that do not address the actual problems that are occurring. It may be necessary to interpret a patron s concern by asking pointed questions or by walking to their machines to discern these problems.
It is very important for consultants to be friendly and polite to all patrons. They will hear many questions being asked more than once. Although these questions may become redundant, consultants are expected to remain courteous.
When redirecting questions to other staff members, consultants should introduce patrons to the new staff members and assure them that their problems will be resolved (e.g., This is Erica. She will assist you with this problem. ). If problems must be handled by other departments, consultants can make referrals or escalate tickets through ServiceNow. They must be certain that the problems can be resolved by these departments and must notify the departments of patron referrals. Inappropriate referrals constitute extremely poor customer service and must be carefully avoided. If one is unsure, consult with a Supervisor.

Consultants are expected to answer patrons questions thoroughly. Consultants are discouraged from spending excessive amounts of time with patrons, particularly when others are waiting for assistance. No patron deserves to be neglected. During off-peak hours, consultants are permitted and encouraged to take more time to answer patrons questions.

In the computer labs, patrons may ask consultants to do their homework for them. Consultants are not permitted to do other people s work, but should refer patrons to their instructors for assistance.

Work Hours & Scheduling

Each semester is comprised of three working periods:

Temporary Schedule

At the beginning of the semester, consultants choose shifts that they can work during this time. Different campuses have shift restrictions due to the demand of shifts. Check with your desired campus on the restrictions. Also, during this time, consultants have to request their permanent schedules.

Consultants are required to work minimum weekly hours during the temp period each semester. If unable to meet the minimum, consultants are required to contact management. If consultants do not meet minimum hourly requirements and do not reach out to management, they risk not being placed on the permanent schedule.

Permanent Schedule

The permanent schedule runs from the end of the temporary schedule to the first reading day before finals. These shifts are requested using the online shift requester during the temporary schedule.

Consultants are advised to request 3 times as many hours as they prefer, but not required to do so. If they submit minimal requested hours, they risk not being placed on permanent schedule. Once a consultant is placed on a permanent schedule, ownership of the shift(s) becomes theirs, and are expected to follow all coverage protocols. If a consultant places the same permanent shift up for coverage more than 3 times in a row, they will be contacted and may be dropped from the shift

There are two instances when consultants are allowed to drop permanent shifts:

During the announced add/drop period. This is during the last week of the temporary schedule. If you were assigned a shift that you can no longer work, you may drop the shift using Zed during the Add/Drop period. This is the only time shifts may be dropped without consequence. You will receive a confirmation email stating that your shift has been successfully dropped. Once you drop a shift, it is final. You will have to request it again if you want it back. Open shifts on the permanent schedule will be listed on the Open Shifts page. To pick up these shifts, request the shifts on Zed using the Request tool. Shortly after the Add & Drop period ends, you will receive an email from the Scheduling Team if you were assigned to any shifts.
If consultants can no longer work specific shifts, they must contact their supervisors for approval in order to drop them. Then they must find replacements for their shifts and have supervisor approval. A shift remains the original consultant s responsibility until the management team approves the change.
Finals Schedule

The finals schedule starts when the permanent schedule ends and lasts through the final exam period. The procedure for picking up finals shifts is similar to that of picking up temporary shifts; however, the finals shifts are selected during the last few weeks of the permanent schedule

Hours Requirement

To maintain your position on the schedule, you are required to work at least 85% of your permanently assigned shifts. Failure to meet this threshold by posting or calling out of your shift for any reason may result in removal from the current schedule and ineligibility for the following semester's schedule.

Level 1 Consultants are expected to work at least ten (10) hours per week but no more than thirty (30) hours per week (twenty (20) hours for international students) throughout the semester.

Level 2 Consultants are expected to work at least twelve (12) hours per week but no more than thirty (30) hours per week (twenty (20) hours for international students) throughout the semester.

Level 3 Assistant Supervisors are expected to work at least fifteen (15) hours per week but no more than thirty (30) hours per week (twenty (20) hours for international students) throughout the semester.

Level 3 Supervisors are expected to work at least eighteen (18) hours per week but no more than thirty (30) hours per week (twenty (20) hours for international students) throughout the semester.

For more information on these schedules, consultants should contact the management team of their groups.

Consultants in Training who would like to be promoted to Consultant status should do the following:

Completion of all required training
Satisfactory performance during temporary schedule
Remain in good standing

There are always some, often many, shifts available. If Consultants in Training in good standing did not receive shifts during this process, they may be invited to pick up shifts throughout the fall semester as they open up or in the spring semester.

Campus Limitations

All consultants and supervisors are limited to working on a maximum of three (3) campuses per semester. The eligible campuses are College Avenue, Livingston, Cook/Douglass, Busch, and Help Desk. This restriction applies to all working periods, including the temporary schedule period at the start of each semester.

Consultants who wish to switch campus rosters for the following semester must reach out to the supervisory groups of the desired campus.

Consultants should plan accordingly when selecting shifts to ensure they remain in compliance with this campus limit policy.

Back to top

Attendance

All OIT consultants must attend all scheduled shifts as they are posted and are expected to work these shifts until their relief arrives. If a shift has ended and relief has not come in - immediately notify the Supervisor on duty. Supervisors should be aware of any absences from a scheduled shift for other duties as soon as possible.

Commitment to Your Role

This is a real job, and your commitment is essential. You are expected to be present and punctual for every scheduled shift. Please understand that your presence is vital to our operations, and any absences or lateness can significantly impact our team.

Your shifts and trainings should be a high priority. Please do not schedule other activities with the expectation that you can miss or be late for work.

Transportation Responsibility

You are responsible for arranging your transportation to and from work on time. Not having transportation or leaving early enough is not an acceptable reason for missing a shift or arriving late. Please plan accordingly to ensure you can fulfill your obligations.

Training Attendance

Attendance at all scheduled trainings is mandatory and holds the same importance as your shifts. Training is critical to help you perform your role effectively, and you are expected to attend them.

Sign Ins

All consultants are expected to sign themselves in when they arrive on duty and sign themselves out when their shift is over. Consultants are to sign into and out of the Zed payroll system upon the start and end of their shift. The time they sign in or out should coincide with the time their shift starts or ends. Consultants are responsible for their own sign ins and sign outs. If there are any problems during a consultant s shift with regards to Zed sign ins and sign outs the consultant is expected to make a comment in the space provided in Zed and should also send email to the campus lab Supervisors or notify the Supervisor on duty.

Consultants should arrive a few minutes early to their shifts to allow time for signing into computers and the Zed payroll system. Arriving early also allows consultants to be ready with the necessary tools open when their shift time begins. Consultants should be signed into the Zed system when their shift is scheduled to start so that they are not considered late.

Falsification of sign ins or sign outs with the intent to receive pay or assist other employees in receiving pay for time not worked constitutes theft and will be treated as such.

Breaks

If consultants want to take breaks other than to use the restroom, they should ask the supervisor on duty. If a break is approved, it must be accounted for in Zed.

Consultants can take quick 15 minute breaks during long shifts without signing out, with their supervisor s permission.

Extended breaks in which consultants leave and go to lunch (for over 15 minutes) is unpaid and must be accounted for in Zed in the appropriate field.

For shifts that are less than 8 hours, a break is not necessary, but may be considered if calls or workloads permit.

For shifts that are 8 hours or longer, a 30 minute break is strongly recommended. You should inform the supervisory staff that you will be going on break before you leave.

Consultants cannot take a break at the immediate start or end of a shift, or use breaks to start a shift late or end a shift early.

Lateness

Consultants are expected to arrive to all shifts and sign in on time. In the event that consultants believe they might be late, they should call the supervisor team of the location their shift is on as soon as they know they are going to be late. Alternatively, they may post in the designated Slack channel at their location for reporting lateness. The supervisor line for each location is as follows:

Help Desk
848-445-4357 then dial silent option press 6 then #
Busch
(848) 445-2760
Cook/Douglass
(848) 932-8498
College Avenue
(848) 932-0319
Livingston
(848) 445-3215

Peer coverage exception: If you know you will be late and secure coverage for the beginning of your shift (e.g., asking a colleague to cover until you arrive), no infraction will be issued if you inform the leadership team at the location where you are working of the lateness and who will be covering that time (before the shift start time). You must note the NetID of the consultant who covered your lateness on your Sign-In. And the consultant who covered your lateness must note your NetID on their Sign-Out.

Managers may only excuse up to a maximum of three (3) absences or missed shifts, and three (3) latenesses, per student per semester. This includes all locations and schedules worked.

Excusals are strictly reserved for genuine, extenuating circumstances that render attendance or being on time absolutely impossible.

You must follow the excusal process noted below.

Calling Out/Emergency Call Outs

Calling out should happen infrequently and only be used in emergency situations. If it happens too often, a meeting with your mentor or a Supervisor may be arranged to discuss the issue.

Certain circumstances require people to take off without advanced notice. In the event that you must call out of a shift with 24 hours notice or less, please abide by the following procedures.

Call the supervisors as soon as possible to inform them you are not able to attend your shift. The number you are calling will depend on where your shift is located.
Livingston - (848) 445-3215
Busch - (848) 445-2760
College Ave - (848) 932-0319
Cook/Douglass - (848) 932-8498
Help Desk - 848-445-4357 then dial silent option press 6 then # for the Supervisors queue after you are prompted to press a number for assistance.
If it is outside of operating hours, you can call the Help Desk to see if an after-hours consultant is available to take your call they can let the location know as soon as possible if you won't be attending your shift.
If you are unable to get in contact with a Supervisor via phone, notify your management team via the appropriate Slack Channel, or email.
Earned Sick Leave (ESL)
What is ESL?

Employees may accrue Earned Sick Leave (ESL) at a rate of one hour per thirty hours worked, up to 40 hours in a benefit year (The benefit year is July 1 through June 30). Employees can use up to 40 hours of accrued ESL per benefit year for the purposes listed in the NJ ESL (see below). Up to 40 hours of accrued and unused ESL may be carried over to the next benefit year, but a maximum of 40 hours of ESL may be used in a benefit year. Employees can begin using their earned sick time 120 days after their start date.

How can I tell how many ESL hours I have?

Login to my.rutgers.edu, then locate the "Employee Self Service" tab. There, you should see many options on the left side. Under "Benefits" there's a link titled "Employee NJ Earned Sick Leave for Class 4 Causal/Temporary or Seasonal Employee and Class 5 Student Workers". Click that, and you should see how many ESL hours you have earned and used. Please keep in mind that you are responsible for keeping track of how many hours you have earned and used. Supervisors cannot see this information.

When can I use my ESL?

New Jersey Earned Sick Leave (NJ ESL) can be used for:

An employee s or employee s family member s medical condition or preventive care
Absences due to circumstances related to domestic or sexual violence
Closure of the employee s workplace, or employee s child s school/daycare, by order of a public health official (This does not apply to a weather closure, only a public health related closure)
Time to attend employee s child school meetings/functions (This does not apply to your own school meetings/functions)
How..." KB0015483 Policies and Procedures Policies and Procedures - Using Walk-in Kiosks "
General Information

Labs and Help Desk consultants are expected to assist with walk-ins. Each primary lab location & Help Desk has Walk-in Kiosks to assist users with personal devices. Walk-in Kiosks provide the ability to take down user information with the Kiosk, which allows consultants to create a ticket in ServiceNow quickly. The locations of the Walk-in Kiosks are as follows:

Busch - Help Desk
Busch - Allison Road Classroom Computing Lab
Cook/Douglass - Loree Computing Lab
Livingston - Tillett Computing Lab
College Avenue - Academic Building Computing Lab
Software remediation/assistance with personal device

Every instance a user needs assistance with a personal device, the Software Remediation Form will need to be filled out. Software Remediation waiver forms are redirected to the Rutgers Connect ECS Docusign folder. Please review and sign forms after they are finished by the user.

Scheduling a Walk-in appointment

If a user would like to schedule a walk-in appointment, it can only be done at the Help Desk at the moment. Consultants may utilize the Bookings Calendar to book an appointment for the user. Always consult with a supervisor before booking any appointments. Further instructions on how to schedule walk-in appointments can be found using this Knowledge Article. If the user would like to visit the labs for a walk-in, an appointment is not necessary.

Walk-in Kiosk Instructions

If you are unfamiliar with the Walk-in Kiosk, refer to the kiosk usage video.







PowerApps Consultant View

In the event you would like to view the Walk-in Kiosk consultant view, follow the steps below:

Navigate to Rutgers Connect
Select the Apps icon in the top left corner > PowerApps. This is also the nine squares in the top left corner. If you are unable to see PowerApps, select All Apps.
Go to Apps > Walk In Client Check-In.
Once viewing Walk In Client Check-In, select the nine dots in the top left corner, then the appropriate campus from the drop-down menu.
Click on the Walk In request and then fill out/view the necessary fields.

You can also access the check-in client here.

" KB0016890 Policies and Procedures Policies and Procedures - Verifying Identity "

If you need to verify a user's identity for password resets, Duo bypass codes, or to unlock a locked account, the following are five acceptable methods. Any of these five methods are acceptable in any situation where identity needs to be confirmed. There is no requirement for one of these methods over another for any particular situation.

Never share the information you see in OR with the user. The user should be providing you with the information, and then you verify that it matches one of the methods listed below.

Always post how you verified the user's identity. If identity has been verified via an alternate phone number or email in OR, post the following in the work notes:

"Verified email/phone: email/phone number from role: role"

Ways to Verify
Alternate phone number
Part 1
Part 2
Alternate (non-Rutgers) email address
Part 1
Part 2
CVC
Verify in person
Verify over Zoom (only when approved and offered by FT)
Emailing in a photo of a Rutgers or a government-issued ID card is not an acceptable form of ID verification.
Alternate phone number
Part 1
Ask the user if they have any non-Rutgers phone numbers that would be on file with Rutgers.
In OR, click on each role to view any listed phone numbers and confirm a match.
User must currently have access to this number.
Alternatively, verify the phone number matches the one found in the Emergency Cell Query tool (only higher level student consultants/supervisors, or Full Time staff have access to this tool; ask for assistance if needed).
User must currently have access to this number.
After confirming a match, post a Worknote in the incident:
"Verified email/phone: email/phone number from role: role"
Verbally tell the user their Interaction (IMS) number, do not use the Incident number.
Part 2
The second consultant should call the user back at the verified number. Do not transfer the call.
Have the user repeat their Interaction (IMS) number provided by the first consultant for verification.
After verification, continue assisting the user as needed.

Please note that providing the number does not constitute verification. The user must be able to receive a call from us at the verified number for the verification to be successful. Activation keys, bypass codes, or NetID unlocks should not be given out or performed until the user has been called back at the verified number.

Alternate (non-Rutgers) email address

Please note that providing the email does not constitute verification. The user must receive an email from us at the verified address for the verification to be successful.

Activation keys or bypass codes must be emailed to the verified Alternate (non-Rutgers) email address only.

NetID Unlocks should only be performed after the user has confirmed the number sent to the alternate email address.

Part 1
Through email

If the user emails us from their non-Rutgers email address listed in OR, this is sufficient to verify their identity and proceed with assistance through email.

Through phone

If the user is on the phone, follow the instructions below.

Ask the user whether they have any non-Rutgers email addresses on file with Rutgers.
In OR, click on each role to see any non-Rutgers emails listed.
User must currently have access to this email.
The consultant should not verbally disclose the Interaction (IMS) number to the user. Instead, email the verified Alternate (non-Rutgers) email address, the Interaction (IMS) number.
You must use the Compose Email feature in ServiceNow, not Additional Comments, to ensure the email only goes to their Alternate (non-Rutgers) email address, and NOT their Rutgers email address (in case their Rutgers email was compromised).
Have the user read the number from their email back to you over the phone.
After confirming a match, post a Worknote in the incident:
"Verified email/phone: email/phone number from role: role"
Add the user's alternate email address to the ticket's Watch List.
Part 2

After verification, continue assisting the user as needed.

For part 2 of a password reset or Duo bypass, have the user confirm their (non-Rutgers) email address and send the Activation Key/Bypass code generated by the supervisor to the alternate (non-Rutgers) email address.

CVC
Ask the user if they have their RUID card. If they do, ask them to provide the CVC number on the back of the card.
This is a six-digit number located on the back of their physical RUID card.
Contact a supervisor and provide them with the CVC number the user provided so the Supervisor can verify it is correct.
NEVER post CVCs in the Incident.
After confirming a match, post a Worknote in the incident:
"Verified CVC"
After verification, continue assisting the user as needed.
Verify in person
Instruct the user to visit the nearest location based on https://it.rutgers.edu/help-support/
Ask the user to provide their Rutgers ID card or a valid US government ID card
Confirm the details match the details in OR, including name and birth date
If there is a photo in OR, confirm that the user and ID match the photo.
After confirming a match, post a Worknote in the incident:
"Verified ID" and note what type of ID was used to verify
After verification, continue assisting the user as needed.
Verify over Zoom (only when approved and offered by FT)
This should be done only if they can not verify via one of the other 4 methods, and when approved by FT - do NOT offer with this being approved by FT.
FT will need to verify the user has a photo in OR for them to verify against during the Zoom, in order to proceed.
Reach out to FT for further guidance. After they confirm that there is no other verification method available, FT will arrange to do the following:
FT will send them a Zoom invite from a departmental OIT Zoom account.
Once on Zoom, FT will record the meeting to the cloud.
They must hold up government-issued ID to the camera and show their face in good lighting.
They must also provide the last 4 of their SSN to the FT staff member (or RUID number if they have no social) during the Zoom call.
If they do not want to do this, they can come in person to verify their ID.
If FT feels that they are not the person in question, they should end the call and send the incident number and recording to abuse for further investigation.
Emailing in a photo of a Rutgers or a government-issued ID card is not an acceptable form of ID verification.

If you have any questions, please ask a Full Time Supervisor.

" KB0014433 Policies and Procedures Policies and Procedures - Walk-in Appointment Scheduling "

Occasionally, the Help Desk will have a user come in with their device to troubleshoot various issues. Tickets that will require moderate to advanced troubleshooting and may appear to be time-consuming are recommended to be handled with a walk-in appointment. Please follow proper escalation procedures though Level 2s (Bomgar)/Level 3s prior to recommending a Walk-In appointment.

When one is needed, please have the user schedule an appointment using this direct link: Walk In Appointment Scheduling.

This link will open a calendar for users to schedule their own walk-in appointments. If the user is having trouble doing so, an appointment can be scheduled with them over the phone. Ensure the email is the same as the email the user has in the Incident. They are also required to have their Incident number to schedule an appointment.

Appointment calendar: hd_appoint@oit.rutgers.edu





" KB0014289 Printing Printing - Papercut Departmental support "

The support team can be reached via papercut_support@oit.rutgers.edu. We typically don t get directly involved with individual client configuration issues or refunds unless your team believes there is a widespread problem.

We are working with the following departments to provide print management through PaperCut:

Department: RBS

Function: Student lab printing

Locations: 1 Washington and 100 Rockefeller

Escalation Path: Departmental IT Staff

Department: SAS

Function: Faculty/Staff printing

Locations: Campus-Wide

Escalation Path: Departmental IT Staff

Department: SC&I

Function: Student lab printing

Locations: School of Communication and Information Building

Escalation Path: Departmental IT Staff

Department: SMLR

Function: Student printing

Locations: Levin and Labor Education Center

Escalation Path: Departmental IT Staff

Department: Language Lab

Function: Student Printing

Locations: Language Institute Building and Ruth Adams Building

Escalation Path: Departmental IT Staff

Department: Computer Science

Function: Student Printing

Locations: Hill Center Second Floor

Escalation Path: Departmental IT Staff

Department: RU Libraries

Function: General Printing

Locations: All Library Locations

Escalation Path: OIT Lab Staff

Department: Pharmacy

Function: Student Printing

Locations: TBD

Escalation Path: OIT Lab Staff

Any department interested in deploying PaperCut can contact papercut_support@oit.rutgers.edu. Users can find more general information on printing at our Print Management page.

" KB0014142 RAMS RAMS - Rutgers Automated Mass-mailing System "

RAMS stands for Rutgers Automated Mass-mailing System. It allows an e-mail list to be generated based on demographic information, and provides for automated updates to the list membership based on changes in the demographic. These emails are sent to a member's official Rutgers email, which can be found in the Cloud Admin Tool (CAT) listed as their User Principal Name (UPN).

As of Spring 2026, RAMS supports ad-hoc mailing lists, allowing users to quickly create temporary mailing lists for specific events, projects, or one-time communications. Owners can manage membership by bulk importing members using their NetID or email address, and can also include members from RAD and Rutgers Connect unified or distribution groups. Currently, only Rutgers individuals can be added to ad-hoc mailing lists; support for external email addresses will be added in the future. If a user is interested in requesting an ad-hoc RAMS mailing list, they will need to use the RAMS New List Request form. In the file "Targeted demographic group", the user should specify "ad-hoc".

The RAMS main page is located at rams.rutgers.edu. Authorized users can find tools on this page to manage their existing lists and create class lists. If you are helping a caller with RAMS, you can find answers to many common questions using the RAMS Documentation page.

In assisting users, it is useful to find out their degree of control over the list.

Administrators can have one of three roles for a RAMS list.

The Owner role makes the user an additional owner of the list. List owners can make any changes to the list. To contact the owner of a list, send mail to <listname>-owner@rams.rutgers.edu.
The Moderator role gives the user the ability to moderate messages that are sent to the list through email or by using the web interface.
Users with the Editor role will also be able to moderate messages sent to the list, but they will only be able to do this through the web interface and not through email. Editors will also not receive an email notifying them that messages are pending moderation.

Owners can go to the website and make any changes using the links for each list.

Moderators are the only ones to get the approval e-mails. Owners do not get them. This is intentional. A faculty member may want to own a list (have full control over its configuration) but doesn't want to be bothered with the daily approval of messages. That might go to a secretary, who can be made a moderator.

Editors can also approve messages, but only through the web interface. An Editor might be a grad student who won't be reading e-mail every day but will just access the web interface as needed and approve/deny messages. Some web links are unavailable to an editor but will be to an owner or moderator.

When troubleshooting a RAMS list problem and unsure how to proceed, or believe the issue needs escalation, be sure to speak with a supervisor as they have extra access to the RAMS system and may be able to spot a problem with these tools that you would not have discovered otherwise.

" KB0014325 RBHS RBHS - Banner "

General Information:

Banner is an RBHS administrative system.

More information on Banner can be found at Banner 9 Resource Center:

When you look up a user in Open Registry and see that his/her Source of Record (SOR) is coming from Banner, that means they are an RBHS student, like when you look up a Rutgers student and see their SOR is coming from SRDB. Under Source: BANNER in OR, you can see whether the user's role is active or not. To access Banner, a user should go to their myRutgers portal and log in with their NetID and password.

If the tab itself cannot be located, have the user attempt to locate Banner under the My Apps tab. Any missing Banner information should be reported to the Faculty/Staff Help Desk.

Accessing Banner through my.rutgers.edu:
Log into my.rutgers.edu.
Select the Apps tab.
Under my apps on the right side is a view and location field select the drop down and select all for both of them.
Search for banner self-service tile in the search option under My Apps.
On the login page there is a statement in red. Have them select the link Rutgers CAS.
This will open up the CAS login page.
Enter the appropriate NetID and password.
Banner Self Service should open.
If a user encounters an error please have them try website troubleshooting such as clearing caches/cookies and try again.

" KB0014117 RBHS "RBHS - Centricity, EMR (Electronic Medical Records) and Meridian" "

The Help Desk may receive calls, especially after hours, from RWJ (Robert Wood Johnson) affiliates regarding Centricity, EMR, or Meridian. If you receive calls in regards to these topics, please refer them to the RWJ-IT Help Desk at 732-235-3300. Hours for this line are 8:30AM to 5PM Mon-Fri. The emergency line is 24/7 and can be accessed via option 3. Only provide them with this phone number if the user's issue is in regards to Centricity, EMR, or Meridian.

You can find further info about the RWJ-IT Help Desk here.

After-hours staff should treat this as a normal ticket and state that you referred them to that number.

" KB0014326 RBHS RBHS - CINJ After Hours Support "

You may receive calls in Five9 with the verbal queue CINJ After Hours, please follow this procedure to triage and support such users. Even if you are escalating or recommending the user call back, please cut a ticket and document the contact as normal with a ServiceNow ticket.

Please reach out to After Hours Support with the ticket number to escalate further if the user is experiencing an issue affecting immediate patient care (e.g. ARIA Medical Oncology outage, full network outage).
For issues with OIT provided service (i.e. NetID Password, Rutgers Connect, VPN), assist them as a normal user.
If the user is experiencing issues with CINJ resources (e.g. REDCAP, H:/J: Drive access, Intranet page issue, ARIA Medical Oncology, TigerConnect, RightFax, Remote Desktop Gateway (unless there is a known OIT RDP Gateway issue), etc.) please direct them to submit a ticket via the normal ticket queue at CINJ Information Services and Technology or to call the CINJ Help Desk (732-235-5561) during normal business hours (0700-1700 M-F).
If the user is experiencing issues with RWJBH resources (e.g. SCM, ARIA Radiation Oncology, Optimum) please contact RWJBH IT support at 848-513-4357.
Otherwise please direct them to call the CINJ Help Desk during normal business hours.

" KB0014331 RBHS RBHS - Poster Printing "

RBHS students have the ability to purchase poster printing, but are also able to print at OIT computer labs. See the RBHS section of this article.

Adding additional funds is done through this link on University Finance and Administration - Student ABC under Payments -> Miscellaneous RBHS payments.

Note that cash is no longer an accepted payment method.

" KB0014196 RBHS RBHS - RBHS Accounts "

If a user is calling in regarding login to an RBHS service, first confirm they can successfully log into cas.rutgers.edu. If they can log into CAS but are unable to log into the RBHS service, there may be an issue with their RBHS account. Speak with a full-time staff member to see if there is an issue with the RBHS account.

If the user is unable to log into CAS, ask additional questions to confirm if there may be an issue with the user's password. If further assistance is required, the Faculty & Staff Help Desk may be able to further assist the user.

" KB0014332 RBHS RBHS - Registrars Contact List "

Contacts for RBHS Registrars can be found here: https://oasa.rbhs.rutgers.edu/registrar/rbhs-school-information-contacts/

" KB0014333 RBHS RBHS - Remote Access Troubleshooting (Citrix) "

UH VPN

Some RBHS\UH users have a misunderstanding that VPN is required for all services.

Inquire what application or service will be used that needs VPN
Ask: What are you trying to access remotely?
If they answer: My office PC
Ask them to be more specific: What do you need to access or run from your office PC?
If they say my network share(s)
Ask: Which network share or which letter drive?
If they say an application
Ask: Which application?
If its a UH or RU Citrix application -
If it's one of the UH Clinical applications below --> Instruct them to register for remote access at istreg.rbhs.rutgers.edu (select Clinical Remote Access)
Epic, Logician, PACs, Muse or Sovera
If its any other UH Citrix application -->
If it's an RBHS application -->

If RBHS\UH user states they are trying to get to Citrix, they do not require VPN, direct the user to a web browser citrix.uhnj.org

If UH user states they are trying to get to network shares (H, J, or K - do not suggest the shared drive letters but let the user tell you).

Inquire if this is the first time accessing the network drive/s. If yes, UH building or remote? Is this a desktop or a laptop? Is this a University Hospital-owned device or a personal device?
First time document the above questions.
HEAT assignment to UH Citrix
Previous user have the user reboot.
If the same result assign UH Desktop
UH Email

If a UH user looking to access email, guide the user to a browser and go to exchange.uhnj.org

Access UH Citrix citrix.uhnj.org (web)

Accessing Citrix remotely using the "Local Citrix Client" (requires VPN)

Users who connect to VPN remotely (for other reasons) may access Citrix from their web browser (citrix.uhnj.org) or from their local Citrix Receiver\Workspace (new name).

If they wish to access Citrix from their local Citrix client, these are the steps:

Log on successfully to VPN
Open Citrix Receiver\Workspace (Start > Programs > Citrix )
If they are already logged on (you will see CORE\Your_Username)
Click on the small button with an arrow pointing down (to the right of CORE\username)
Select Log Off
Click on the same button
Select log on
Log in using your NetID or Core credential
Launch desired Citrix application
If they are not logged on, they will see LOGON instead of CORE\username
follow steps 3c thru 3f.

" KB0016915 RBHS RBHS - RWJ IT Support "

Support Overview?

The RWJ-IT support number 732-235-3300?is now routed to the OIT Faculty and Staff Help Desk.

Call Coverage is Monday Friday, 8:30 am to 5 pm.?
RWJMS has no IT support for nights and weekends. ?
Handling Calls

Please note, that calls from RWJMS may be received from ANY skillset. ?

Utilize the standard OIT Help Desk greeting when taking these calls.?
When you receive a call from an RWJMS client for support that you can provide, such as NetID password login, password reset, or DUO, please continue to assist the RWJMS client.
RWJMS has specific clinical devices in their environment which are supported by Robert Wood Johnson Barnabas Health (RWJBH). RWJBH is an independent healthcare provider.
RWJMS Clinical devices are using a virtual desktop (VDI) and are unable to access Rutgers services. RWJMS clinical computers contain the RWJBH VDI image on the desktop and when logged in are on the RWJBH network. These types of calls must go to RWJBH for support.
The RWJBH Enterprise Service Desk is available at 855-453-1950 or 844-513-4357.
All RWJBH clients may also submit a self-service ticket using the service portal at https://rwjbh.service-now.com/sp.
When you are unable to provide support, warm transfer the RWJMS caller using the VCC phone book for Internal Transfer > Faculty, Staff or RBHS Internal.
The RWJMS support number 732-235-3300 is now answered by the OIT Faculty and Staff Help Desk.

" KB0015912 RBHS RBHS - School of Dental Medicine (SDM) Call Handling Procedure "

The OIT Help Desk has coordinated with the School of Dental Medicine (SDM) to receive their first-level calls. The SDM phone number 973-972-8200 has been routed to the OIT Help Desk.

Below is the process for receiving and escalating calls.

Support Overview
Call Coverage is Monday Friday, 7:30 am to 5:00 pm.
Priority Dedicated Coverage will be 7:30 am 9:30 am.
A majority of calls will come between this time.
Be familiar with the escalation process.
All Level 2 and above are responsible for handling daily call activity.?
The skill in Five9 is called SDM General.
The consultant will hear the call is from the Dental School High Priority when answering a call from the skill.
Please note that calls from SDM users may be received from ANY skillset. Please follow the same procedures listed regardless of skill if the user is from SDM.
Utilize the standard OIT Help Desk greeting.
SDM has no IT support for nights and weekends.
Handling Call Activity
Be sure to ask the caller if they have an existing ticket, as SDM has communicated to their community that routine request activity is directed to it@sdm.rutgers.edu and will generate a ServiceNow incident assigned to RSDM-Triage.
If the user has an existing incident in an RSDM assignment group, please do NOT move it out of the current assignment group. You may leave work notes on the incident in its current assignment group.
Any standard enterprise-related call (i.e., NetID password, Connect, DUO, etc.) can be handled through standard OIT Help Desk procedures.
If you receive a call that requires SDM-specific support, mark it as New and assign it to RSDM - Triage.
Please be sure to include the location and any specifics of the issue. On-campus and off-campus locations can be found under the location heading in this article.
Escalation Procedure

Escalate all activity where an SDM customer indicates they need someone right away, it is urgent, or needs someone to respond immediately. This includes but is not limited to urgent matters related to classes, exams and patient care. If there is any doubt, proceed to escalate the issue using the following procedure:

Level 2 staff should seek assistance from FT/Sup to escalate the call.
Full-time staff and supervisors will have access to the Microsoft Teams Channel "RSDM IT Support & OIT Help Desk Coordination".
Use the RSDM tag and post in the channel.
Include the INC number, the user requesting assistance, the location of the user if relevant, and any other pertinent information.
Please do not keep user on the line. You can inform the user that their call has been assigned to the SDM team and will be followed up with as soon as possible.
RSDM Locations (On Campus / Off Campus)
Main - RBHS Campus -Rutgers School of Dental Medicine 110 Bergen Street, Newark?
Faculty Practice Newark Doctors Office Complex (DOC) 90 Bergen Street, Newark?
Faculty Practice New Brunswick 135 Somerset Street, New Brunswick?
Extramural Dental Centers?
Galloway, NJ?
Northfield, NJ?
Somerdale, NJ?

" KB0018767 RBHS RBHS - School of Nursing (SoN) Call Handling Procedure "

The OIT Help Desk has coordinated with the School of Nursing (SoN) to receive their first-level calls. The SoN phone number 973-972-3609 has been routed to the OIT Help desk.

Support Overview
Call coverage is Monday Friday, 7:30 am to 7:30 pm
The skill in Five9 is called OIT_SoN
All Level 2 and above will be responsible for handling daily call activity. Please note calls from SoN users may be received from ANY skillset.
Fac/Staff support will handle call activity from 7:30 am to 8:30 am and provide backup up to 5 pm.
Please follow the same procedures listed regardless of the Five9 skill it came from, if the user is from SoN.
Utilize the standard OIT Help Desk greeting.
SoN has no IT support for overnights, weekends, and university holidays.
Handling Call Activity
Be sure to ask the caller if they have an existing ticket, as SoN has communicated to their community that routine request activity is directed to email support@sn.rutgers.edu which will generate a ServiceNow incident assigned to the group: SON - IT.
If the user has an existing incident in an SoN assignment group, do NOT move it out of the current assignment group. You may leave work notes on the incident in its current Assignment group.
Any standard enterprise-related call (i.e., NetID password, Connect, DUO, etc.) can be handled through standard OIT Help Desk procedures.
If you receive a call that requires SoN-specific support, mark it as New and assign it to the group: SON - IT.
Please be sure to include the location and any specifics of the issue. On-campus and off-campus locations can be found under the location heading below.
Escalation Procedure

Escalate all activity where a SoN user indicates they need someone right away, it is urgent, or needs someone to respond immediately. This includes but is not limited to urgent matters related to classes, exams, and patient care. If there is any doubt, proceed to escalate the issue using the following procedure:

Level 2 staff should seek assistance from FT/Sup to escalate the call.
Full-time staff and supervisors will have access to the Microsoft Teams Channel "SoN & OIT Help Desk".
Use the SoN tag and post in the channel.
Include the INC number, the user requesting assistance, the location of the user if relevant, and any other pertinent information.
Please do not keep the user on the line. You can inform the user that their call has been escalated to the SoN team and will be followed up with as soon as possible.
SoN Locations (On Campus / Off Campus)
North Jersey
Ackerson Hall, Rutgers Newark 180 University Ave., Newark, NJ
Stanley S. Bergen Building (SSB) 65 Bergen St., Newark, NJ
Central Jersey
110 Patterson Street, New Brunswick, NJ
120 Albany Street, (Tower 2, 3rd & 4th floors), New Brunswick, NJ
South Jersey
Blackwood, Camden County College Campus, 200 College Dr., Blackwood, NJ
Suite 114 Jefferson Hall Admin location
Polk Hall 102 - Classroom

" KB0014334 RBHS RBHS - SCM (Sunrise) "

SCM (aka Sunrise) is used by both the medical school (RU RWJMS) and the hospital (RWJBH).

If the access needed is in Rutgers RWJMS locations the issue should be assigned to RWJMS - New Brunswick or RWJMS - Piscataway.

When the call is for access within the hospital (RWJBH) the issue goes to RWJBH IT support 848-513-4357.

When the entire system is down contact RWJBH IT 738-828-3000 ext. 8921.

" KB0014336 RBHS RBHS - UBHC Core Issues "

If a user calls in because they have been locked out of their UBHC core log-in, we can let them know that their account will auto-unlock after 15 minutes so they can wait 15 minutes and then try to log in again.

Additionally, after a user has gone to netid.rutgers.edu to change their password, they will need to log off of their workstation and then log back in using their new password. If they do not log off and log back in after a password change, it can result in their UBHC core account being locked.

UBHCORG and all users should be logging in to their emails or Office 365 using the format userid@ubhc.rutgers.edu.

UBHC has its own Help Desk (this is separate from the RBHS Help Desk) with limited staffing for UBHC core log-in issues. They have an auto ticket generator at ubhcatg@ubhc.rutgers.edu, and all users are encouraged to send an email to it for auto ticket generation. The UBHC Help Desk can also be reached by phone at 732-235-4715.

" KB0014337 RBHS RBHS - UBHC Help Desk "

Standard Open Hours - M-F 8:30 am to 5 pm

UBHC Help Desk phone 732-235-4715

https://sites.rutgers.edu/ubhc-is/

" KB0014338 RBHS RBHS - UH - Compliance and HealthStream Course Knowledge "

Rutgers Biomedical Health Sciences (RBHS)

Rutgers University Ethics and Compliance (UEC) manages courseware for RBHS compliance.

RBHS users having difficulty accessing HealthStream or other Compliance Courses should be referred to contact 973-972-8000 or email ethics@ca.rutgers.edu for support.
The main UEC home page.
University Hospital in Newark (UH-Newark)

UH-Newark Office of Ethics and Compliance (OEC) managers courseware for UH compliance.

UH-Newark users having difficulty accessing HealthStream or other Compliance Courses should be referred to contact 973-972-3450 or email uhethics@uhnj.org for support.
The main UH OEC page.

" KB0014341 RBHS RBHS - University Hospital Newark (UH) Support "

The UH Employee Portal requires 2-factor authentication.

Anyone calling in who refers to themselves as "university hospital" may be from differing departments. These users will often not show up in OpenRegistry, so please use their supplied contact information when making a ticket so that we are able to follow up with the user if necessary.

Please refer to the information below while troubleshooting their issues:

Robert Wood Johnson Medical School: RWJMS has a 24/7 Help Desk that only has support for limited services such as EMR and Centricity (732-235-3300).
Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital: RWJUH is unaffiliated (was never supported by UMDNJ), but occasionally call in because they share some buildings/applications with the medical school; they have their own 24/7 support number for UH IT at 732-828-3000x8921.
Newark University Hospital: Newark UH staff are supported by the UH CAST team 24/7 (973-972-1666). The Newark UH portal can be found at my.uhnj.org, which is also supported by the UH CAST team.
EPIC Support Calls for University Hospital (UH) Newark
Escalating to UH CAST

The Newark UH CAST team should be contacted for any issues regarding clinical support (applications and services that affect patient care) for Newark University Hospital. Calls relating to device equipment connectivity issues should also be escalated to the CAST group. CAST is responsible for all level 1 troubleshooting and if there is a need to escalate, CAST will reach out to On-call UH IT technical staff.

Any UH calls that are escalated from UH IT Technical staff only, can be escalated to the NOC support line.

The contact information for UH CAST is:

Email: cast_team@uhnj.org
Phone: 973-972-1666

When you receive the call, you should confirm that the caller is from University Hospital Newark regarding access to UH EPIC before transferring the call to UH CAST. In order to evaluate the issue please ask the following questions:

What application is the user trying to access?
What hospital is the application associated with?
Additional probing questions can be found at the end of this article.

When reaching out to UH Cast:

CAST has an on-call person to assist with remote login issues.
If you are unable to reach the CAST team leave a message and ask for a callback.
If the CAST team does not agree that they support the issue at hand please contact a full-time supervisor who may direct you to ask the CAST team to contact Clinton Moody or Ron Martens.
The CAST team has been directed to contact applications support for network-related issues. These issues should be escalated to the NOC.
If a non CAST team user calls in to report a network outage, ask them if they have coordinated with the CAST team about this outage, if not have them contact the CAST team.
RWJMS Support Buildings
Clinical Academic Building (CAB)	Chandler	Somerset (1st & 2nd) FL
Child Health Institute (CHI)	Church Street	Monroe
Medical Education Building (MEB)	New Brunswick High School	Montclair
112 Paterson Street (4th & 2nd FL)	317 George Street	East Tower ( 8th Fl)
10 Plum Street (8th FL)	Liberty Plaza	

*buildings in bold represent RWJMS clinical locations

Helpdesk After-Hours Process

Off-hours and Critical Call Process 732-235-3300 automatically routes to the critical call line.

For Password reset, press 1 (Transfer to Meridian 855-579-4377)
For issues with EMR, press 2 (Transfer to Meridian 855-579-4377)
For an emergent issue that affects an entire department, building or campus, press 3 ( routed back to 3-3200

Once a critical issue is identified, the request will be entered to the proper group based on the type of problem:

GE: An SR
TN: Ticket
M3: Mtrak
RUTOIT After Hours escalation: contact the NOC helpdesk at 848-445-7541:
Select Option 1 a helpdesk representative will answer the call and he/she will contact the staff member that is on call (caller should request an escalation to TD off hours)
Select Option 3 This is routed directly to the staff member who is on call for that day. If you are transferred to the voicemail, he/she will call you back and advise the next step.
Helpdesk Probing Questions
Where are you located? If this is in the clinical areas for RWJMS, proceed to next question.
What application are you accessing? (Most of the issues for after-hours will be related to EMR or IDX)
What happens when you attempt to access the application
Does it display an error message?
What does the error display?
Can you access the internet?
Are you using VDI?
If he/she is on VDI, ask if the client can access this application on another computer with VDI
If yes, then this maybe related specific to this VDI session
The client can proceed to use the working computer then advise to put in a ticket and RWJMS technical support will troubleshoot in the morning.
If no, this problem maybe specific to the application, continue to ask more questions

" KB0014143 ScarletMail ScarletMail - ScM and ScarletApps access for Alumni "

Any user with an active Alumni role showing in Open Registry will have indefinite access to their ScarletMail and ScarletApps.

Accessing ScarletMail

If the user has not done so, they can activate their ScarletMail account by going to NetID Service Activation.

Please note that even if the user's NetID is not listed in LDAP, they can proceed through Service Activation once they activate their NetID. They should see the option to activate ScarletApps and ScarletMail.

If the user is unsure how to log into their ScarletMail account, have them go to mail.scarletmail.rutgers.edu and log in using their NetID and password.

For Alumni interested in finding out what other resources they have access to, you may redirect them to the following knowledge base.



" KB0014370 ScarletMail ScarletMail - Account Disabled "

Callers may have issues with logging into ScarletMail. They may report that they get the error:

This account has been disabled. We are unable to process your request at this time. Please try again later.

This usually means there is a security issue with the account, and Google has locked it. The caller will not be able to log into Google services at that time. Look the caller up by NetID in the NetID Admin interface. If you do not see the lock on NetID Admin, please update the ticket and bring it to a supervisor.

If the user is calling regarding a ScarletMail audit, please see the ScarletMail - Audit and Deprovisioning page.

" KB0013858 ScarletMail Scarletmail - Additional Info "

If a user needs a Scarlet Mail password reset, they will follow the same procedure as for their NetID.

ScarletApps Mobile/POP/IMAP Password

Previously, there was a separate password for ScarletMail to configure it on third-party mail clients. As of September 2024, this separate password no longer exists, and users should use their NetID password.

Google Transfer Quotas

The link below details the daily transfer quotas for the Gmail account. This affects the Gmail web interface, as well as IMAP and POP Upload/Download limits.

https://support.google.com/a/answer/1071518?hl=en

If a user is setting up a ScarletMail account with Outlook and receives Over Quota or Outlook can not synchronize subscribed folders for scarletmail.rutgers.edu error messages, the issue may be related to the Google Quota limits.


RBHS ScarletApps Access

They are unable to set Scarletmail as their delivery or display address due to their PHI flag. If a user wishes to have this set, please speak to a supervisor.

Below is a list of domains that are allowed as a Delivery or Official Rutgers Email Address for PHI=Y:


ca.rutgers.edu (Central Administration)
cabm.rutgers.edu (Center for Advanced Biotechnology and Medicine)
cinj.rutgers.edu (Cancer Institute of New Jersey)
eohsi.rutgers.edu (Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences Institute)
gsbs.rutgers.edu (Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences)
njms.rutgers.edu (NJ Medical School)
rwjms.rutgers.edu (Robert Wood Johnson Medical School)
sdm.rutgers.edu (School of Dental Medicine)
shrp.rutgers.edu (School of Health-Related Professions)
sn.rutgers.edu (School of Nursing)
sph.rutgers.edu (School of Public Health)
ubhc.rutgers.edu (University Behavioral Health Care)

Email addresses in the above list of domains can be added as delivery and display addresses in NetID Email Management for users with PHI restrictions.

" KB0014371 ScarletMail ScarletMail - Audit and Deprovisioning "

As of Monday, December 9, 2019, we will be updating the ScarletMail account audit process. We have traditionally run these audits once a semester to clean up the accounts for those who no longer hold a role that entitles them to a ScarletMail account. ScarletMail account audits will now follow an automated procedure that more closely aligns with the Rutgers Connect account audit process. Please note that the ScarletMail audit not only affects ScarletMail but the entire ScarletApps Suite.

ScarletMail Audit and Deprovisioning Process:

Please read the new guidelines for the ScarletMail audit process:

These automated audits will run every week.
Once a week, users who no longer hold a valid Rutgers role will be notified via email of the closure of their ScarletMail account. Please keep in mind that, under the new deprovisioning policies, the user's role end date may not coincide with the day their ScarletMail account is closed. The off-boarding process page will provide additional details (RBHS students keep authentication for 120 days past their role end date, and legacy students keep authentication until the following semester).
The notification will include the date the account will be locked.
Every day, a check is performed to determine whether a user has regained a proper Rutgers role that entitles them to a ScarletMail account again. If they do, they will be automatically removed from the audit list. If the user is already locked, their account will be unlocked.
If the user is under audit, you will see a red box with their deletion date and the date they were notified via email.
Example of the audit email that users will receive:

From: Scarletmail Help <help@scarletmail.rutgers.edu>
Sent: Friday, December 6, 2019 5:19 PM
To: Scarletmail Help <help@scarletmail.rutgers.edu>
Subject: Rutgers email accounts subject to closure

Dear [USER],

We are contacting you to let you know that your [NETID]@scarletmail.rutgers.edu account is currently scheduled for deletion the morning of [DATE].

According to official University records, either:

You are no longer registered as a Rutgers student.
You are no longer working as faculty/staff for Rutgers University.
You are not listed as a Rutgers alumni/retiree/emeritus.
Your university guest status has expired.

If this is incorrect or you have exceptional circumstances, please learn who to contact by visiting the ScarletMail audit self-service page, choosing your current role, and following the instructions that are provided for your specific role.

Once your ScarletMail account is removed, you will no longer have access to your ScarletMail emails or ScarletApps data (including documents, photos and other data stored in Drive).

If you wish to verify the validity of this message, or if you still require assistance after following the directions on the self-service page above, please email help@scarletmail.rutgers.edu, or contact your local Help Desk.

Thank you,

OIT Help Desk

The ScarletMail audit self-service form:
The audit email will include a self-service Google Form that users can use to find instructions for retaining their ScarletMail account based on their current situation.
This form contains an option for the user to request further assistance. Full-time staff will monitor this form and respond to each request for additional assistance.
Assisting a user with keeping their ScarletMail account:
Please use this knowledge article as a reference when assisting users with retaining their ScarletMail account, if needed.
After reviewing the options above with the user, they should be able to determine their next step in retaining their account. If the user still needs further assistance, please escalate to a supervisor.

" KB0016212 ScarletMail ScarletMail - Handling Requests for Email Spoofing Help "

Request From Systems

There will be times when the systems groups will send an email asking us to follow up with a user suspected of spoofing (faking) the from address of a Rutgers email from a non-Rutgers account. The request from systems will be sent to hd_ft and look similar to the following:

From: Basil Kmech <kmech@oit.rutgers.edu>
Sent: Friday, May 5, 2023 12:25 AM
To: ECS Help Desk FT Supervisors <hd_ft@oit.rutgers.edu>
Cc: Super-User <root@hoover.rutgers.edu>
Subject: NetID spoofing help needed

HD

RU_acct_info:
netid:##netid:832705:42000:ZHANE CAVE:/hoover/netid:/bin/tcsh

NOTE: They might be sending an email to their own account

If they are the "Actor:", see the "Date:" and "Received by:" info too in Google's alert details below; their email actions are getting the attention of Gmail and their automated protection/security systems. They should probably change what they are doing and stop.

## This is all we know. Google does what it does.
This Gmail potential employee spoofing alert informs you that a sender has sent messages that may be spoofing employee names in your domain.

The alert details include:

Summary: non_rutgers account@somewhere.com sent 1 message that may be spoofing users with a similar display name in your domain. There wwas1 rrecipient
Date: Thursday, May 4, 2023, 8:41:36 PM (UTC)
Actor: non_rutgers account@somewhere.com
Total messages: 1
Received by: netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu
Severity: MEDIUM

Thanks,
kmech c/o root@scarletmail.r.e

Handling Requests

To handle these requests, please do the following:

Create an incident.
Caller: Guest
Service Offering: ScarletMail
Business Service: Email and Collaboration Services
Category: Communication and collaboration
Assignment Group: NB-HD-Level 3 (or any group you have access to)
Assigned to: yourself
Short Description: Google Email Spoofing Alert
Copy and paste the email received from the systems group into the Work Notes of the incident.
Using the email feature in ServiceNow, send the following email to the netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu email address. Copy and paste the email below or use the Help@OIT Email Spoofing response template.


Hello,

Google has notified us that the address [non_rutgers account@somewhere.com] is attempting to send email out as: [name of the spoofer or netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu]. This is setting off their automated protection and warning system, so we wanted to let you know. If there is a specific reason why you need to do this, please let us know, and we can try to assist you in accomplishing this through alternate means.

Your issue has been marked as resolved but not closed. If you are still experiencing issues related to this incident, call the OIT Help Desk at 833-OIT-HELP (648-4357) or visit the Rutgers IT Help Portal. If you are not encountering any more issues, your response is not required, and this incident will close automatically in 5 days.

Best,

OIT Help Desk
833-OIT-HELP (648-4357)


After that is done, you can Reply All to the email report from systems to confirm the user has been followed up with, and resolve the incident.

" KB0014372 ScarletMail ScarletMail - Mobile configuration for iOS and Android devices "

There are several ways for a user to configure ScarletMail for their mobile devices. The user may use the default mail app that comes with their device or users may use the Gmail app itself.

If a student is under 18 years old, they may be unable to access ScarletMail through mobile mail apps or third-party mail clients. They should access ScarletMail through a web browser.

For setting up ScarletMail for an iOS device, please reference the user-facing documentation.

For setting up ScarletMail for an Android device, please reference the user-facing documentation.

Utilizing Gmail
Have the user open the Gmail app on their mobile device. If the user has not installed the Gmail app, walk the user through downloading the application from their respective app store.
If the user has an existing email added to the Gmail app, they will select their profile picture > use another account > and then log in using netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu
If the user is logging in for the first time, they will select Sign In and then log in using netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu.
The user will then be prompted to log in via CAS. The user will enter their NetID and NetID password.
If the user is not enrolled in Duo, they will be prompted to set up Duo. You may walk the user through Duo Enrollment. If the user is already enrolled they will need to approve the login.
Once Duo is approved/setup the user will be able to see their emails within the Gmail app (it may take 5-10 minutes for all emails to load)

Google offers additional documentation if you need further materials to assist the user.

" KB0014199 ScarletMail ScarletMail - ScarletMail and ScarletApps (Google@Rutgers) "

ScarletApps is the implementation of Google Suite services at Rutgers University, accessed through a user's ScarletMail account. ScarletMail accounts are provided to anyone with Faculty, Staff, Alumni, Retiree/Emeritus, Guest, or Student roles. ScarletApps services include Google applications such as Gmail, Docs, Calendar, Video, Sites, and Groups. To see if a user has a ScarletMail account, consultants may check the CAT tool.

If a student is under 18 years old, they will be unable to use third party apps or setup ScarletMail on any mail client. They will need to use the web browser to access their account.

Google Links:

ScarletApps FAQ

Google Terms of Service

Google Apps Privacy Policy

Domain Administrator Data Access

" KB0018415 ServiceNow ServiceNow - Chat Support "

Table of Contents
General Policies
Professionalism
Expectations
Logging into Chat
Enabling Notifications
Accepting Chats
Using Chat
Mandatory Fields
Available Chat Features
Using Response Templates
Sending Knowledge Articles
Creating Incidents from a Chat
Transferring Chat to another agent
Transferring to another group
Handling situations
Request the user call/walk-in
Ask the user to hold
User provides sensitive info in the chat
User is irate
Chat ends before issue is resolved
Ending Chats
User ended
User did not respond
Agent ended
Timeouts
General Policies
Professionalism

Response Templates should be used as much as possible to ensure a uniform and professional chat experience for all users.

Address users in a professional manner.

Avoid everyday texting slang, IT jargon, or acronyms.

Expectations

When assigned to a chat shift, you should be working on emails when not actively in a chat. Pay attention to ServiceNow during your entire shift so you do not miss an incoming chat before it times out. When one comes in you should immediately accept it and pause working on emails.

You should only be engaged in 1 active chat at a time.

Logging into Chat
After logging into ServiceNow, ensure you are in Service Operations Workspace.
On the left side toolbar, click the chat icon to open your Chat Inbox.




Click the dropdown box and select Available. This is also where you would set your status to Away if you are not in an active chat and need to step away from the computer, similar to what you would do in Five9.


Enabling Notifications

The first time you log into chat, you must enable desktop notifications. Once enabled, you should not have to do so again.

Click the gear icon in your Chat inbox.
Ensure all notification options are selected.


Accepting Chats
When an incoming chat is in your Queue, you will have 20 seconds to click Accept. Chats will only appear in 1 agent's queue at a time; they do not show up for multiple agents simultaneously. ServiceNow allows you to accept multiple chats and have several active at one time, however you should only have 1 active chat.




After accepting, the chat window will open, and you can see the user's entire Chat Bot history before it was routed to you. Review the history to understand the user's issue.




On the right side will be the Chat Interaction's fields and Work notes, similar to taking a phone call.




For the initial message, use the Greeting message response template.
Follow up with the Request existing incident number response template to see if they have contacted us about this issue before. You should also review the user's Related Records for any open incidents.
Ask for a phone number and email if you get disconnected using the Request contact info response template.
Using Chat
Mandatory Fields
You must enter a Service Offering for the Chat since it is a required field, and one is not automatically selected.
The Short Description will be pre-populated with a generic description; however, you must change this field to be more descriptive to accurately reflect the user's issue.
After updating those 2 fields, make sure to click Save.
Assignment Group is set to ITSM - New Brunswick Chat Support by default and carries over automatically to any Incident created from the chat. Leave the Assignment Group as is.
Available Chat Features

The chat window has various built-in features. They can be accessed by typing / in the chat window or clicking the lightning icon on the chat bar. The only features we will be using at this time are:

Sending a Response Template
Searching the Knowledge Base (KB)
Transferring to another Agent

There is an option to have a private chat with other agents that is not visible to the user. However, it should not be used. Continue using Slack for communication with other consultants/supervisors.

Using Response Templates

Response Templates should be used as much as possible to ensure a uniform and professional chat experience for all users.

Bring up the response templates by typing /r or clicking the lightning icon and choosing Response Templates.




Enter keywords to search the available templates, and a list of related ones will appear. Hovering over the template in the list will display a pop-up preview of the whole template.




Choose the desired template to have it populate as your draft chat message. You can alter it before it is sent, for example, if you need to replace the [INCIDENT NUMBER] found in the message with the actual number.




Hit enter or click the send icon, and it will be sent to the user.




Sending Knowledge Articles
Bring up the knowledge base search by typing /search-kb or clicking the lightning icon and choosing Search KB Article.
Enter keywords to search the knowledge base, and a list of related articles will appear.




Click a knowledge article to add it to your draft chat message. Send the Sending a knowledge article (KA) response template with the KA.




After sending the knowledge article, it will be shown in the chat history. Both you and the user can click the link in the chat window to open it.


Creating Incidents from a Chat

Similar to phone calls, if a chat can not readily be resolved and requires escalating to another group or additional follow-up, you will need to create an incident.

Ensure you have added a Service Offering, updated the Short Description, and clicked Save on the Chat Interaction before proceeding.
Click Create Incident in the top right corner. Do not use the /create_incident chat feature as it does not copy any work notes from the chat into the incident.




For any new work notes, add them to the incident moving forward and not the chat interaction.
Use an appropriate response template and replace the [INCIDENT NUMBER] text in the response template with the user's actual incident number.




After sending, the incident will appear in the chat history. Both you and the user can click on it to open it.


Transferring Chat to another agent

You can transfer an active chat over to another agent if necessary. Few groups provide chat support, so transferring is typically limited to your group.

The agent you want to transfer to must be set to Available in chat before you can transfer.

Confirm with the other agent over Slack before attempting to transfer.
Send the user the Transfer chat response template.
Start a transfer by typing /ta or clicking the lightning icon and choosing Transfer to Agent. You can also click the transfer to agent icon on the chat toolbar.




Search for an agent by name, NetID, or choose one from the available list.




After selecting, their NetID will be shown in quotes.




Click the send icon to initiate the transfer. The inbox on the left will show both agents that you have a pending sent or incoming transfer request.

Sent transfer request:



Incoming transfer request:




Once accepted, both agents will remain in the Chat. The user does not see any notice of the transfer, and if either agent comments, it appears to be coming from one agent.
The accepting agent should send the Accept a transfer response template after updating their name in it.
The accepting agent must set the Assignment group back to ITSM - New Brunswick Chat Support.
The original agent can leave the chat by clicking the X on the interaction's tab in the Service Operations Workspace.
Transferring to another group

Due to the limited groups supporting chat currently, transferring a chat to another group's chat queue is not an option. If the issue needs to be transferred to another group or escalated further, you must create an incident for the user.

Ensure you have created an incident for the user using the Create Incident button in the top right. This will copy all worknotes from the chat over to the incident.




Ensure all relevant information from the chat is included in the incident since other groups cannot view the chat history.
Select the appropriate response template to send the user in the Chat:
Reassigning Incident if another group in ServiceNow will handle the incident, and they will address the issue with the user directly.
Created incident task if you are creating a task for another group for escalation, with the expectation that the Help Desk will follow-up with the user.
Contact local IT (DAs) if they need to contact their local DAs for assistance and the DAs do not have an assignment group in ServiceNow.
Replace the [INCIDENT NUMBER] text in the response template with the user's actual incident Number.




After sending, the incident will appear in the chat history. Both you and the user can click on it to open it.


After ensuring the user has no further questions or concerns, click End Chat to mark it as Closed Complete.




Continue any further work on the incident that was created.
Handling situations
Request the user call/walk-in

Sometimes an issue can not be troubleshooted over the phone, or they must verify their identity.

Create an incident for them.
Ensure you provide the user with the incident number in the chat.
Instruct them to call the Help Desk or walk into one of our locations using the Request user calls in or Request user walks in response templates.
Ask the user to hold

There may be times when you need to do further research into their issue or consult a supervisor. If this is the case, continued follow-up with the user is essential while they are waiting. This ensures they know the issue is being looked into and the chat doesn't timeout.

Initially putting the user on hold

Use the Place on hold first notice response template when first asking them to give you time to look into the issue further.

Ask for more time

After a certain period, with no response from the user or agent, the chat will prompt the user if they want to continue the conversation. If this happens and you need additional time, send the Place on hold continuing response template.

Ask to follow up with the user at a later time

If enough time has passed to warrant offering the user a follow-up when you have more information, send the Place on hold offer follow-up response template. This will allow them to continue waiting, get a callback, or receive updates via email about their incident.

If they request a call back or follow up email, ensure you:

Create an incident
Have their phone number and preferred email address in the incident
Note in the incident whether they prefer a phone call or email follow-up
Provide them with the incident number in the chat before ending it
User provides sensitive info in the chat

Please contact a Full Time Staff member.

User is irate

If a user is disrespectful, angry, or inappropriate in their conversation, notify a Supervisor or FT. You can then send the Irate user first notice response template.

If they continue to be aggressive or disrespectful, consult with a Supervisor or FT and then send the Irate user end chat response template. Once you do, immediately end the chat.

Escalate to a Supervisor

After consulting with a supervisor or FT to determine whether the situation warrants it, use the Escalate to supervisor response template. The expectation is that the Supervisor calls the user to address their issue.

Chat ends before the issue is resolved

In the event a user ends the chat before you have confirmed their issue is resolved, or the chat timeouts due to a lack of response from them, do the following:

Create an incident from the Chat.
Ensure you copy all relevant information from the chat as a work note on the incident.
Resolve the incident using the Help@OIT Chat Disconnected response template.
Ending Chats
User ended

A user may choose to end a chat at any time. You should receive a notification in the chat window if they do. Follow the instructions in the Chat ends before the issue is resolved section above on how to proceed.

This will automatically mark the chat State as Closed Complete.

User did not respond

After a certain period of time with no response from the user or agent, the user will be prompted if they would like to continue the conversation. If the user does not respond, the chat will automatically close and you will see a corresponding message. This will automatically mark the chat State as Closed Complete. Follow the instructions in the Chat ends before the issue is resolved section above on how to proceed.

Agent ended
Confirm with the user they have no further questions using the Any further questions response template.
Once they confirm, send the Final message response template.
Click End Chat which will automatically mark it as Closed Complete.




The chat history will show a message that the chat has ended.




Finish wrapping up any work notes or incident if one was created.
Timeouts

You have 20 seconds to accept an incoming chat, which is only shown to 1 agent at a time.

The idle chat reminder, to ask if the user would like to continue the chat, is displayed to the user anywhere between 3 to 5 minutes, depending on when the user last messaged.

The chat timeout, when the chat is closed due to inactivity, is anywhere between 6 to 8 minutes, depending on when the last message was posted in the chat by the user or agent.

" KB0014749 ServiceNow ServiceNow - Creating Incident Tasks "

You can maintain ownership of an Incident to coordinate communications with the user, but create a Task for escalated action items or to request input from other OIT related groups (Connect, Box, Mailman, etc..)

Service Operations Workspace view
In the top right corner of an incident, click on Create incident task.




A new tab will open.
Fill out the fields on the Task:

Short Description: Brief summary of the issue.
Description:

Clearly specify the action that is needed by the support group, or the specific question that needs input on.
Include all relevant information from the Incident that the support group would need to complete the Task. Do not assume they will go back and look at the Incident.
Configuration Item: Typically this should be the same as the Incident's Service Offering/Business service/Category. Should correlate with the group you will be assigning the task to.
Assignment group: The support group that you are requesting additional input/escalation from.
Assigned To: Usually left blank.
Work Notes: Assign yourself to the Work Notes Watchlist for the Task. (?)
Click Save when complete.
Return to the Incident. Make any necessary Work Notes and put the State to Awaiting Internal Partner.
Traditional Incident View

To create a task:

After the Incident has been created and saved, scroll down to the bottom of the page.
Select the Incident Task Tab.
Select New to create a new Task.
Fill out the fields on the Task:

Configuration Item: Typically this should be the same as the Incident's Service Offering/Business service/Category. Should correlate with the group you will be assigning the task to.
Assignment group: The support group that you are requesting additional input/escalation from.
Assigned To: Usually left blank.
Short Description: Brief summary of the issue.
Description:

Clearly specify the action that is needed by the support group, or the specific question that needs input on.
Include all relevant information from the Incident that the support group would need to complete the Task. Do not assume they will go back and look at the Incident.
Work Notes: Assign yourself to the Work Notes Watchlist for the Task.
Click Save when complete.
Return to the Incident. Make any necessary Work Notes and put the State to Awaiting Internal Partner.



" KB0010853 ServiceNow ServiceNow - Creating Interactions/Incidents "

Table of Contents
Service Operations Workspace (SOW) view
Creating an Interaction
Closing the Interaction
If no further action is needed
Further action needed
Handling an Incident
Sending Emails
On Hold
Resolved
Escalating an Incident
If the responsible party is in ServiceNow
If the RP is not in ServiceNow
Traditional Incident View
Creating an Incident
Handling an Incident
On Hold
Resolved
Escalating an Incident
If the responsible party is in ServiceNow
If the RP is not in ServiceNow

Service Operations Workspace (SOW) view
Creating an Interaction

For phone calls, if you have the Workspace view open already, a new Interaction should automatically be created and some fields auto-populated when you answer the call. In this case skip to step 4.

Open the Workspace if you haven't already done so by clicking on Workspaces > Service Operations Workspace.




Create a new Interaction by clicking + > New Interaction






Choose the Interaction Type from the drop down menu.
Search for a relevant Service Offering which is a Categorization of the incident, if you don t find a specific service offering use the most appropriate category/business service.
Search for the user's NetID in the Opened For field, or use Guest if the user does not have a NetID.
If the user is calling on behalf of someone, search for the NetID of the person they are calling for in the Subject Person field.
Search to see if the user has an existing Incident:
For the Caller
Once a NetID is entered in the Opened For field, if they have any recent Incidents or Tasks it will show in the right bar under Requestor Information > [USER's] Tasks. Click View all.




Alternatively you can click the i icon to the right of the user's name in the Opened For field. Then in the new tab that opens, click on Related Records > Incidents.




For the Subject Person
Since these do not automatically show under Requestor Information, click the i icon to the right of the user's name in the Subject Person field. Then in the new tab that opens, click on Related Records > Incidents.
If an Incident exists you can associate it with your interaction by doing the following.
Open the Incident.
Click the three dots in the top right corner, then Associate Record.




Enter the Interaction number in the Interaction field.




Click Save.
Collect alternate contact information and enter the phone number in the Callback phone number field.
Choose the appropriate Assignment Group.

NB-HD for Walk-ins or Level 1 phone calls, a supervisor will assist if it needs to be escalated further.
NB-HD - Level 2 for ITS or SDM calls
The Assigned To field should already be populated with your name.
Enter a Short description, which is a brief sentence on the user s issue. This will be sent out to the user via email.
Enter a Description, which is a longer more thorough explanation of the user's issue (i.e. issue environment, troubleshooting already performed). This field is visible to the user.
Category/Business Service/Service Offering: Categorization of incident, if you don t find a specific service offering use the most appropriate category/business service
Click Save in the top right if you have not already done so.
You may add Work Notes in that field which are not visible to the User.
Closing the Interaction

All Interactions should be Closed at the end of every call/walk-in.

If no further action is needed

If you are able to resolve the issue over the phone with no other assistance needed you can mark down any final Wok Notes and then click Complete or Close in the top right corner. No further action is necessary.

Further action needed
Create an Incident from the Interaction if you need to do any of the following:
You need to send the user any additional information thru the Incident/over email (links to knowledge articles, bypass code, AK, etc..)
The user's issue was not fully resolved and they need to have the Incident Placed On Hold.
The user needs to be routed to another Assignment Group, or have an Incident Task open with another Group
To create an Incident first click Complete or Close in the top right corner.
Then click Create incident.




A new tab for the Incident will open under the existing Interaction and most of the fields should automatically be copied over.
If the person is a Guest, make sure to add an email for them under Alternate Contact Information > Caller Alternate Email.
Proceed to handle the Incident as you normally would.
Handling an Incident
Sending Emails

To Send an email to the user, find and use a Response Template from the side panel. Alternatively, a list of common responses can also be found on the ServiceNow - Response Template KA.

Click the Response Template icon from the side panel.




Search for and select the appropriate template.
Scroll down under the template that is displayed and click Copy to clipboard to copy the template.
Under Compose make sure Comments is selected and paste in the response template you copied.
If you are resolving the Incident, put the template into the Resolution Notes field instead.
Edit the response as necessary and proceed with the instructions below to place it On Hold or Resolved.
On Hold
If we are putting the issue on hold (such as awaiting information from the customer or a vendor), change the state to On Hold and set the On hold reason and the Hold until fields as applicable (7 days by default).

Additional comments are required when setting the On hold reason to Awaiting Caller
Work notes are required when On hold reason is set to Awaiting Vendor
For the OIT Help Desk when adding Additional comments for any of the above cases you may use the following template or edit a response from Responses Templates:
A list of common responses can also be found on the ServiceNow - Response Template KA.

Hello [Name],

Thank you for contacting the OIT Help Desk.

[Information regarding the user's case/answers to additional questions]

[IF PLACING INCIDENT ON HOLD:] Your issue has been marked as on hold. If you are still encountering issues regarding this incident, please respond to this email with more information or call the OIT Help Desk at 833-OIT-HELP (648-4357). If you are not encountering any more issues, your response is not required, and this incident will resolve in 7 days.

[IF RESOLVING INCIDENT:] Your issue has been marked as resolved, but it has not been closed. If you are still encountering issues regarding this incident, call the OIT Help Desk at 833-OIT-HELP (648-4357) or visit the Rutgers IT Help Portal: https://ithelp.rutgers.edu/. If you are not encountering any more issues, your response is not required, and this incident will close automatically in 5 days.


Best,
[Your Name]
OIT Help Desk
833-OIT-HELP (648-4357)




Save the Incident.
Resolved
When the Incident is resolved, change the State to Resolved.

Resolving gives the customer 5 days to reply to the incident in the event their issue is not resolved before it is closed by the system.
After closing, should the issue reoccur you can create a new incident for the user and reference the original ticket.
In the Resolution Information tab, enter the Resolution code and Resolution notes as applicable and save/resolve the incident.




Escalating an Incident
If the responsible party is in ServiceNow
Assigning the entire Incident to the Group

If instructed to do so, you may assign the Incident to another Group.

Ensure the state is set to New
Change Assignment Group to the appropriate team, but do not set an Assigned To unless the other team/our standard operation procedures instructs you to do so.
A list of all onboarded groups and their correct triage group can be found in the following knowledge article.
When changing Assignment Group you will be required to set Work Notes, use this to indicate why the incident is assigned to their group and what action is required of them.
Save the incident.
Creating an Incident Task

If the Help Desk is maintaining ownership of the Incident and communication with the user, but we need input from other groups, follow the instructions on creating an Incident Task.

If the RP is not in ServiceNow
If normal escalation is not via ServiceNow, follow existing Standard operating procedures. (ex: OneStop or OneSource) Typically this involves providing the user with a public facing phone number/email for another support group.
Update Work Notes and Additional Comments as needed.
Resolve the Incident if applicable.
If the normal escalation path is email to another group (not normally used):

You may use the Email functionality in ServiceNow ONLY if the user would normally be cc d in those escalations as replies will be marked as Additional comments. (ex: for Supervisors emailing IAM for Identity Merges).
You may use the Compose Email functionality found under the Handling an Incident > Sending Emails section of this KA. However instead of copying the response template back into the Additional Comments field, you would send the email through this interface.
Subject for these emails should typically be the Incident number.
You may also escalate outside ServiceNow if applicable, and post relevant information into Work Notes and Additional Comments

You wouldn t want to subscribe the address to the work notes list at this time since those emails contain links to Service Now which may confuse parties.







Traditional Incident View
Creating an Incident
Create a new Incident.
Search for the user's NetID within the Caller field

Alternatively, you may use the magnifying glass to search the user s table in its entirety, or use an alternate system applicable to your department to locate the user s NetID
If the user is not a Rutgers affiliate (or does not yet have a NetID), enter the Caller as Guest

When the caller and the subject person are the same (i.e. not calling on behalf of someone), please clear the Subject person field as it generates unnecessary required fields
For Guests you will need to complete the Alternate Contact Information tab
You can select the Show related incidents icon to the right of the Caller field if the user mentions they have called about this previously or if you want to see if they have other incidents open.
It is important to ensure you have the right caller, some users may have similar names/NetIDs so always double check if you are unsure.




Collect alternate contact information

Enter the phone number in the Callback phone number field.
Enter their email address (if they would not like to use their Rutgers address), in the Alternate Contact Information tab.
If they re using an alternate (non Rutgers) email address AND they are a Rutgers affiliate please add that alternate address to the Watch List , this will send additional customer visible comments to them.

If they are a Guest caller (non-affiliate), this field is automatically populated from the Alternate Contact Information Tab.
Fill in the required information before submitting the incident
Short description: is a brief sentence on the user s issue. This will be sent out to the user via email.
Description: is a longer more thorough explanation of the user's issue (i.e. issue environment, troubleshooting already performed). This field is visible to the user.
Category/Business Service/Service Offering: Categorization of incident, if you don t find a specific service offering use the most appropriate category/business service
Choose the appropriate Assignment Group.

NB-HD for Walk-ins or Level 1 phone calls, a supervisor will assist if it needs to be escalated further.
NB-HD - Level 2 for ITS or SDM calls
Assigned to

If you are resolving this issue yourself, you may assign it to yourself, provided you are in the relevant assignment group
Note: Incidents will automatically change to In Progress when they are assigned to an individual
At this point the incident should be Saved , which enters the record into the system and keeps you on the screen (Submitting will cause you to return to the previous screen instead)
Other fields are not required for initial submission, but SHOULD be completed for reporting ASAP:

Channel: Method of user contact interaction
Impact & Urgency : Used to determine order in which incidents should be resolved. These are set to normal by default and only need to be changed for high priority issues.
Comments ( Notes Tab)

Work notes

Should be used to document the call for internal use, and is not visible to the user.
Comment throughout the interaction (for HD staff this is where we would post NetID admin/OR/information stream during the interaction).
Additional comments

Are customer visible, and should only be used once or so per interaction to summarize the events that occurred and provide information to the user (i.e. to provide a knowledge article, link, or contact information for another group)
Every additional comment sends the user an email based on the emails configured in the Watch list and the users default Rutgers email address.
Handling an Incident
On Hold
If we are putting the issue on hold (such as awaiting information from the customer or a vendor), change the state to On Hold and set the On hold reason and the Hold until fields as applicable (7 days by default).

Additional comments are required when setting the On hold reason to Awaiting Caller
Work notes are required when On hold reason is set to Awaiting Vendor
For the OIT Help Desk when adding Additional comments for any of the above cases you may use the following template or edit a response from Responses:

Hello [Name],

Thank you for contacting the OIT Help Desk.

[Information regarding the user's case/answers to additional questions]

[IF PLACING INCIDENT ON HOLD:] Your issue has been marked as on hold. If you are still encountering issues regarding this incident, please respond to this email with more information or call the OIT Help Desk at 833-OIT-HELP (648-4357). If you are not encountering any more issues, your response is not required, and this incident will resolve in 7 days.

[IF RESOLVING INCIDENT:] Your issue has been marked as resolved, but it has not been closed. If you are still encountering issues regarding this incident, call the OIT Help Desk at 833-OIT-HELP (648-4357) or visit the Rutgers IT Help Portal: https://ithelp.rutgers.edu/. If you are not encountering any more issues, your response is not required, and this incident will close automatically in 5 days.


Best,
[Your Name]
OIT Help Desk
833-OIT-HELP (648-4357)

Resolved
When the Incident is resolved, change the State to Resolved.

Resolving gives the customer 5 days to reply to the incident in the event their issue is not resolved before it is closed by the system.
After closing, should the issue reoccur you can create a new incident for the user and reference the original ticket.
In the Resolution Information tab, enter the Resolution code and Resolution notes as applicable and save/resolve the incident

The button named Responses in the top right has resolution templates for common issues and a general resolution note. These should always be used and edited accordingly.


Escalating an Incident
If the responsible party is in ServiceNow
Assigning the entire Incident to the Group

If instructed to do so, you may assign the Incident to another Group.

Ensure the state is set to New
Change Assignment Group to the appropriate team, but do not set an Assigned To unless the other team/our standard operation procedures instructs you to do so.

When changing Assignment Group you will be required to set Work Notes, use this to indicate why the incident is assigned to their group and what action is required of them.
Save the incident.
Creating an Incident Task

If the Help Desk is maintaining ownership of the Incident and communication with the user, but we need input from other groups, follow the instructions on creating an Incident Task.

If the RP is not in ServiceNow
If normal escalation is not via ServiceNow, follow existing Standard operating procedures. Typically this involves providing the user with a public facing phone number/email for another support group.
Update Work Notes and Additional Comments as needed.
Resolve the Incident if applicable.
If the normal escalation path is email:

You may use the Email functionality in ServiceNow ONLY if the user would normally be cc d in those escalations as replies will be marked as Additional comments
Escalate outside ServiceNow and post relevant information into Work Notes and Additional Comments

You wouldn t want to subscribe the address to the work notes list at this time since those emails contain links to Service Now which may confuse parties.

" KB0011360 ServiceNow ServiceNow - Customer Survey Follow-ups "

When you are asked to do a Customer Survey Follow-up, please use the response template Help@OIT Follow-up After Negative Survey when sending the email. It can be edited to best match the incident and/or request from the user.

If the user's incident is already closed, you can choose Copy Incident from the Additional Actions menu in Service Operations Workplace. You will need to fill in most of the information again, but this will leave a note in the work notes that this new incident is a copy of the previous incident. After responding, leave the incident "On Hold" and "Awaiting Caller" for one week. If someone requests you to follow up, it is best practice to let that person know the incident number of the new incident.

" KB0010823 ServiceNow ServiceNow - Email Support Procedures "

Table of Contents
Service Operations Workspace (SOW) view
Answering Emails
Handling an Incident
Sending Emails
On Hold
Resolved
Escalating an Incident
If the responsible party is in ServiceNow
If the RP is not in ServiceNow
Housekeeping
On Hold past due
Email Queues to review
Supervisor Housekeeping
New/In Progress but not answered
Resolved but Responded To
On Hold but has a Response
Open Interactions
Email Support - Updating Notifications
Traditional view
Answering Emails
Escalating Incidents
Housekeeping
Email Supervisors
Email Support Triage Responses
Email Support - Updating Notifications
Service Operations Workspace (SOW) view
Answering Emails
Open the Workspace if you haven't already done so by clicking on Workspaces > Service Operations Workspace.
Change to Your Teams Work from the drop down to see Incidents an Tasks for all assignment groups you are a part of.




You'll see a serious of pie charts. Go through the following lists to address each type of request. Click on the chart for each to bring up the list view underneath.

Unassigned Incidents
Go through each level from highest to lowest severity.
Sort the Updated column from oldest to newest when addressing these.
Incidents assigned to your team
In Progress
Sort the Updated column from oldest to newest when addressing these.
There should not be any In Progress incidents that are not actively being worked on by staff at that moment.
Any In Progress incidents with an Updated date before today should be moved to an On Hold or Resolved state.
On Hold
Sort the Updated column from oldest to newest when addressing these.
Separately, you should also sort the Hold until column from oldest to newest to determine if the Hold until date has passed, if so, the incident should be handled as noted in the Housekeeping section below.




For Supervisors: Click the right arrow to display additional charts relating to Incident Tasks and Catalog Tasks. Make sure to address these as well during your shift. More information on handling the Catalog Tasks can be found on the Handling Generic Requests KA.
After selecting one of the sections noted above make sure to sort from oldest to newest. Click on Updated to sort that column from oldest to newest. To do this you may have to add the Updated column to the list view the first time you use SOW.
Click on the Settings (gear) icon above the list of incidents.
Then click Edit Columns.




Highlight the Updated option in the list on the left, then click the arrow to move it to the list on the right.
You can arrange the order of columns here by clicking and dragging on each field. (Alternatively when viewing the list of incidents, you can hover over a column, click the six dots that appear and drag columns left and right.)
Click OK to save.
Tip: Change the display to remove empty space in list view by clicking on your initials in the top right, then Preferences > Display > toggle Use compact spacing mode to be on.
If you want to view Incidents only for a specific group (ex: Help@OIT to see only emails or NB-HD to see only phone call incidents) you can do so by grouping the Incidents by Assignment Group.
Click the three dots on Assignment Group.
Click Group by Assignment Group.




Click the Number of the first incident to open it and read through it. Click the Details tab on the Incident to see more info.
When opening for the first time you may have to click the dropdown next to Incident to see all the standard fields.




Assign it to yourself by clicking Assign to me so other staff don t address it. If its already assigned to another staff member from previous follow-up, reassign it to yourself.
Note that all emails stay in the NB-HD - Help@OIT assignment group and all phone calls/walk ins stay in the NB-HD assignment group.
Any ITS or SDM calls/emails go into the NB-HD - Level 2 assignment group.
If it is a new email, under the Impact section you will need to set the Category, Business service, and Service offering to the best of your ability; if the specific Business service/Service offering doesn t exist use the Category that would fit best




In some cases this may auto-set the Assignment Group, please change it as appropriate. To set the Assignment Group:

If the name is not typed exactly (i.e. NB-HD - Level 2) it will not select, as it searches for an exact match, starting with what you type. You may use the magnifying glass to the right of the List Editor to search against a list of all values.
You may also start with an asterisk * to search for an assignment group that includes the characters you type anywhere in the group name, and not just starting with. (ex: *Duo will bring up Two-Step Login with Duo)
When updating assignment group you will have to add Work Notes when assigning an incident put a brief sentence about why you assigned it to that group. Do not save the work notes at this time wait until all steps are completed and save all at once.
If the email is a spam email (received spam that doesn t require a report to Abuse, not a user report of a phishing message) The email is clearly not an IT related issue, the individual is not sending from a Rutgers email address, and we can reasonably assume the sender knew this was not the right way to share this info - for example, complaints about a faculty member - process this as spam. If it comes from a Rutgers email address, please reach out to FT for guidance.
Assign it to yourself.
Clear out the Watchlist field and update the Alternate Contact Information to be: "N/A" or simply put a dash "-"
Update the following:
Category: IT Professional Services
Business Service: IT Service Delivery and Support
Service Offering: IT Student Help Desk
Additional Comment: Incident is Spam
Make sure to Save your changes.
Click the Mark as Spam button in the top right. This will auto cancel the ticket.
Set the Impact and Urgency fields

Knowledge Article on those fields
Internal HD article on those fields
If the user is a guest, you will need to complete the Alternate Contact Information tab with the information available.
If the user emailed an RUID/NetID but it was not associated with their profile you can manually update the Caller field.
If the user emailed from a non-Rutgers address, please set the Watch list accordingly to include their email.

This should be done even if they are a Rutgers affiliate (for emails received as Guest it will automatically pull the Caller Alternate Email after saving
If the email was received with a blank subject the Short Description will be blank, please enter a brief description of the issue
Save the incident and proceed with handling accordingly.
Handling an Incident
Sending Emails

To Send an email to the user, find and use a Response Template from the side panel. Alternatively, a list of common responses can also be found on the ServiceNow - Response Template KA.

Click the Response Template icon from the side panel.




Search for and select the appropriate template.
Scroll down under the template that is displayed and click Copy to clipboard to copy the template.
Under Compose make sure Comments is selected and paste in the response template you copied.
If you are resolving the Incident, put the template into the Resolution Notes field instead.
Edit the response as necessary and proceed with the instructions below to place it On Hold or Resolved.
On Hold
If we are putting the issue on hold (such as awaiting information from the customer or a vendor), change the state to On Hold and set the On hold reason and the Hold until fields as applicable (7 days by default).

Additional comments are required when setting the On hold reason to Awaiting Caller
Work notes are required when On hold reason is set to Awaiting Vendor
For the OIT Help Desk when adding Additional comments for any of the above cases you may use the following template or edit a response from Responses Template as instructed above; like the "Help@OIT Response" template:
A list of common responses can also be found on the ServiceNow - Response Template KA.

Hello [Name],

Thank you for contacting the OIT Help Desk.

[Information regarding the user's case/answers to additional questions]

[IF PLACING INCIDENT ON HOLD:] Your issue has been marked as on hold. If you are still encountering issues regarding this incident, please respond to this email with more information or call the OIT Help Desk at 833-OIT-HELP (648-4357). If you are not encountering any more issues, your response is not required, and this incident will resolve in 7 days.

[IF RESOLVING INCIDENT:] Your issue has been marked as resolved, but it has not been closed. If you are still encountering issues regarding this incident, call the OIT Help Desk at 833-OIT-HELP (648-4357) or visit the Rutgers IT Help Portal: https://ithelp.rutgers.edu/. If you are not encountering any more issues, your response is not required, and this incident will close automatically in 5 days.

Best,
[Your Name]
OIT Help Desk
833-OIT-HELP (648-4357)




Save the Incident.
Resolved
When the Incident is resolved, change the State to Resolved.

Resolving gives the customer 5 days to reply to the incident in the event their issue is not resolved before it is closed by the system.
After closing, should the issue reoccur you can create a new incident for the user and reference the original ticket.
In the Resolution Information tab, enter the Resolution code and Resolution notes as applicable and save/resolve the incident.




Escalating an Incident
If the responsible party is in ServiceNow

Follow the guidance in the Reassigning Incidents vs Incident Task KA to determine whether to reassign the entire incident or cut an incident task for another group.

Assigning the entire Incident to the Group

If instructed to do so, you may assign the Incident to another Group.

Ensure the state is set to New
Change Assignment Group to the appropriate team, but do not set an Assigned To unless the other team/our standard operation procedures instruct you to do so.
A list of all onboarded groups and their correct triage group can be found in the following knowledge article.
When changing Assignment Group you will be required to set Work Notes, use this to indicate why the incident is assigned to their group and what action is required of them.
Save the incident.
Creating an Incident Task

If the Help Desk is maintaining ownership of the Incident and communication with the user but needs input from other groups, follow the instructions on creating an Incident Task.

If the RP is not in ServiceNow
If normal escalation is not via ServiceNow, follow existing Standard operating procedures. (ex: OneStop or OneSource) Typically, this involves providing the user with a public-facing phone number/email for another support group.
Update Work Notes and Additional Comments as needed.
Resolve the Incident if applicable.
If the normal escalation path is email to another group (not normally used):

You may use the Email functionality in ServiceNow ONLY if the user would normally be cc d in those escalations as replies will be marked as Additional comments. (ex: for Supervisors emailing IAM for Identity Merges).
You may use the Compose Email functionality found under the Handling an Incident > Sending Emails section of this KA. However instead of copying the response template back into the Additional Comments field, you would send the email through this interface.
Subject for these emails should typically be the Incident number.
You may also escalate outside ServiceNow if applicable, and post relevant information into Work Notes and Additional Comments

You wouldn t want to subscribe the address to the work notes list at this time since those emails contain links to Service Now which may confuse parties.
Housekeeping
On Hold past due

Review the On Hold incidents to ensure none have passed their On Hold date. You may need to add the Hold until column to your list view if it is not already there by doing the following:

Click on the Settings (gear) icon above the list of incidents.
Then click Edit Columns.




Highlight the Hold until option in the list on the left, then click the arrow to move it to the list on the right.
You can arrange the order of columns here by clicking and dragging on each field. (Alternatively when viewing the list of incidents, you can hover over a column, click the six dots that appear and drag columns left and right.)
Click OK to save.

Review the On Hold past due incidents: This is a list of all incidents that are passed their Hold until, confirm the user has not responded.

Under the Incidents Assigned to your team pie chart, select On Hold.
Click the Hold until column name to sort from oldest to newest.
For those whose Hold date has passed, confirm the user has not responded and no further action is needed from us on the incident.
Change State to Resolved and update the Resolution Notes tab, then Save the incident.
The Resolution code is Solved Remotely for emails.
Resolution notes should use the "Help@OIT Resolving After End of Hold" Response Template
Email Queues to review

Email Mega Filter contains all queues below, with the exception of Open Interactions:

Email Mega Filter

Use the following links to review each separate email queue:

Level 1 Overdue
Level 2 Overdue
Level 1 In Progress
Level 2 In Progress
New ITS Incidents
Email Queue
Open Interactions
Supervisor Housekeeping

For Supervisors, these filters should be used when on shift and not answering emails to clean up incidents that should now be resolved.

In all cases click the incident number and review the email/replies (determine if it needs an alternate Assignment group or priority change).
If it doesn t, clear the Assigned to and set the State to New
Elsewise set the appropriate Assignment group and ensure the Assigned to is blank and the State is New
New/In Progress but not answered
Check this periodically to ensure no staff assigned themselves to an incident but did not answer the email. Or that a user who responded to the incident gets a response.
Remove the Assigned to if the email was not answered so it is back in the queue
Resolved but Responded To

Tracks resolved email incidents where the user replied.

On Hold but has a Response

Tracks on hold email incidents where someone other than the Assigned To user responded.

Open Interactions

Any Interaction that is still active. All Interactions should be closed after the end of every call/walk in support.



Email Support - Updating Notifications
Click on the Gear in the top right, then Notifications
Click Advanced Preferences.
Click Delivery Channel
Under Email click +Add > Channel Info and add your @oit address
Disable the Primary email and enable your secondary email if not already
Go to System Notifications, then go to the IT Service Management section
Ensure all items in this category are setup to use your Secondary email
Repeat this for Knowledge, Service Catalog, SLA, and Uncategorized



Traditional view
Answering Emails
Go to the Email Support Mega Filter should be used during your shifts to answer emails. This filter contains:

New incidents
Incidents in progress
Incidents on hold
Incidents that are resolved but received a new response by the user (please make sure you get to these before they close!)
Please sort Opened ascending (oldest first) order, then right-click on Priority and select Group by, we d like you to answer emails of the highest priority first, in ascending time order.
The filters below will still be part of Email Support and we may ask you to check them when there are new or pressing incidents.

Level 1 Email Support
Level 2 Email Support
Level 3 Email Support
Click the Incident# of the first incident and read through the user s email(s).



Assign it to yourself and save so other staff don t address it.
If its already assigned to another staff member from previous follow-up, reassign it to yourself.




If the assignment group is NB-HD - Help@oit Triage you will need to set the Category, Business service, and Service offering to the best of your ability; if the specific Business service/Service offering doesn t exist use the Category that would fit best




In some cases this may auto-set the Assignment Group, please change it as appropriate. To set the Assignment Group:

If the name is not typed exactly (i.e. NB-HD - Level 1) it will not select, you may also use the magnifying glass to the right of the List Editor to search against a list of all values.
When updating assignment group you will have to add Work Notes when assigning an incident put a brief sentence about why you assigned it to that group (I.e. Connect issue from VIP or irate user ..." KB0018539 ServiceNow ServiceNow - Labs Level 1 Email Support Procedures "

It is a main responsibility of a Labs Level 1 consultant to answer emails sent to the help@oit.rutgers.edu email address in ServiceNow. There is an expectation for Labs Level 1 consultants to answer at least two emails per hour and note them down in the Level 1 Consultant End-Of-Shift (EOS) report for tracking. Level 1 consultants must have their emails approved by a supervisor to check for correctness before responding to a user.

Table of Contents
Getting started in ServiceNow
Taking ownership of a ticket
Filling out the incident fields
Checking related records
Posting tool information
Using the response templates
Using other available resources
Incident escalations
How to escalate tickets to Level 2 email support
Draft approval process
Criteria for draft approval
Supervisor housekeeping
Getting started in ServiceNow

Labs Level 1 consultants can use the Level 1 Consultant Dashboard in ServiceNow to see an overview of the emails assigned to the NB-Labs - Level 1 assignment group in ServiceNow.

Supervisors will review the Lab Supervisor Dashboard to review tickets that require a supervisor's attention.

Level 1 consultants will answer emails sorted into the NB-Labs - Level 1 assignment group in ServiceNow by a supervisor. The emails selected for the Level 1 consultants to review will include topics appropriate for a Level 1 consultant and can be answered using a ServiceNow response template.

Some topics that a Level 1 may encounter can include:

Standard NetID activation questions
NetID locked for deprovisioning
Admit Coming/Student Role access troubleshooting
Lab-specific questions related to printing, hours, locations, and quotas
OneStop redirects
Service activation issues
OIT Virtual Lab offerings
General Rutgers questions
Term bill login
Simple RUWireless secure questions
Straightforward RUatHome questions
Standard/phone-verified DUO bypass codes

Supervisors will leave emails with questions on the following topics in the primary Help@OIT filter for Level 2s to review:

CommunityID issues
Applications questions
NetID merges
NetID password resets
RBHS or Rutgers Health issues
Citrix questions
Kerblocks
International/email-verified DUO bypass codes
Taking ownership of a ticket

To maintain efficiency and ensure no emails are overlooked, tickets should be addressed in the order they were received. This process helps move the email queue forward and prevents delays. To view the oldest emails first, sort the filter by the Updated column in descending order.

Steps to take ownership of a ticket:

Open the ticket by clicking on the incident number.
Assign the ticket by selecting Assign to me in the upper right-hand corner
Once assigned, responsibility for resolving the ticket remains with the assigned consultant for the duration of their shift.

If the ticket cannot be completed before the end of a shift:

Add a work note explaining why the ticket could not be completed
Unassign the ticket by removing the name from the Assigned to field
Change the ticket's state back to New
Click Save

This process communicates to other consultants that the ticket is available for continued work and preserves Progress.

Filling out the incident fields

When a ticket is opened, the system defaults to the Overview panel, where the user's original message can be found under the Summary section.



For additional ticket information, click the Details tab. The complete set of incident fields may be accessed by expanding the down arrow next to Incident if it is not immediately visible.

Under the Impact section, complete the following fields based on the context of the issue:

Category
Business service
Service offering

Once the service offering is selected, the business service and category should auto-populate. If they do not, it is then the consultant's responsibility to ensure these fields are filled accurately. The accuracy of these fields is important, as they determine which response templates will be available during ticket resolution. For assistance with these fields, refer to the ServiceNow: Using the Category, Business Service, and Service Offering fields knowledge article, which includes a list of all available service offerings.

Checking related records

It is essential to check whether the user has any other open tickets related to this matter to determine if another consultant has already addressed their concern.

To check related records:

Select the Related records tab at the top of the page




Go to the Incidents by Caller/Subject section
This page will show all incidents in ServiceNow where the user is in the Caller or Subject person fields.
Please take note of the date and time the incidents were opened, their State, and the Short Description.
Click on a ticket number to open it in a new tab.

After reviewing the tickets under Related records, it may be determined that no other relevant tickets were recently opened for this user for this issue. If so, please close out of this view and answer the original email ticket in the Details panel as usual.

Parent/Child tickets

When a recent relevant ticket is found, proceed in one of the following ways:

If the recent relevant ticket has been resolved:

Review the ticket to understand the solution
Set the email ticket as a child ticket and the resolved related ticket as the parent.
This action will cross-reference the two tickets, indicating they were related contact points about the same issue.
All child tickets will automatically resolve when the parent ticket is resolved.

To designate an incident as a child ticket in the ServiceNow Operations Workspace:

Navigate to the Related Records section of the Details panel
Enter the parent ticket's incident number in the Parent Incident field




Click Save

If the recent relevant ticket is marked as New and has not been assigned to a group:

Confirm with a supervisor whether the tickets should be cross-referenced as Parent/Child
This configuration ensures that all work notes and additional comments will be centralized in the parent ticket and automatically shared with the child ticket.

If the recent relevant ticket is assigned to another group and is In Progress:

Review the ticket to understand the troubleshooting steps already taken
Check with a supervisor for guidance on how to proceed
Posting tool information

If the user has a NetID, information from the following sources needs to be posted:

NetID Admin Management
All information from this search can be posted as a work note.
CAT Tool
Only post the relevant information, such as their roles or which services they are requesting access to.

For NetID users, always post the NetID Admin and role information in every ticket. If the user is a guest without a NetID, mention this in the work notes, as they will not have a record on our systems to use for troubleshooting.

Using the response templates

To select a response template:

Select the correct Category, Business service, and Service offering
Click Save
Select the Response Template icon from the right panel




Choose the corresponding response template from the dropdown menu
Please note that some templates will only appear if the service offering is updated to the corresponding topic.
Click Copy to clipboard.
Paste the template into a work note or a separate document to draft the response.
Review all notes written in brackets and erase any irrelevant sections.
Enter the drafted response into the ticket as a work note

In some situations, the template may not provide enough information to satisfy the question the user is asking. In this case, the template can be used as a base, and the relevant information can be added manually. Links to public-facing knowledge articles can be shared with users by copying the article's permalink into the response.

Using other available resources

ServiceNow

The IT Service Management Knowledge Base contains information on various internal and external topics and procedures.
If a relevant article is missing or insufficient, notify a supervisor so it can be reviewed and potentially updated.
When referencing Knowledge Base articles during troubleshooting, include article links in the ticket's work notes to allow supervisors to retrace the troubleshooting process.
The keyword search feature in ServiceNow can also be used to locate tickets with similar issues.
Searching for related tickets, like exploring a user's Related Records, is a helpful way to find examples of how similar problems were handled.
Referenced ticket numbers can also be included in a work note for documentation and review purposes.

Grammarly

Grammarly is a tool that provides grammar assistance and can help make email drafts sound more professional when appropriately used.
While Grammarly includes a generative AI feature for brainstorming and advanced writing support, this feature is not permitted for Level 1 email communications.
Instructions for activating Grammarly can be found on the Grammarly support page.

Google

Online searches often provide helpful information related to the issue being addressed.
However, because publicly available information may not be specific to Rutgers systems or procedures, verify any findings with a supervisor before relying on them for resolution.
Incident escalations

When additional guidance is needed for a ticket, the following escalation paths are available:

Consult with an on-site Level 2:

Level 2 cons are email certified and can provide direction and support.
They may also share relevant documentation to aid in understanding internal resources and processes.

Consult with an on-site assistant supervisor:

If a level 2 is not available, an assistant supervisor may be consulted.

Post questions in the #esd_nb_level1_email Slack channel:

Use the @here tag to notify all currently active users.
Before posting, perform a keyword search in Slack to check if the question has already been asked and addressed.
Previously answered questions often contain valuable insights and solutions in their comment threads.

Technical questions should be asked in public Slack channels rather than private messages to support shared learning and knowledge building. This approach enables consultants to learn from one another and reference past solutions when similar issues arise.

How to escalate tickets

While Level 1 email support is provided by the consultants in the Labs, additional Level 1 email support is provided by the Help Desk. Sometimes, an email that is triaged to Labs Level 1 support may require more in-depth troubleshooting or require tools that the Labs consultants do not have access to. For these cases, please speak with a supervisor or reach out in Slack so that the ticket can be reassigned.

To reassign a ticket to the Help Desk, a supervisor will take the following steps:

Change the Assignment Group to NB-HD - Help@OIT
Unassign the Level 1 consultant from the ticket so it is blank
Change the State of the ticket to New
Save the ticket
Reach out to the Help Desk supervisors on the #esd_nb_hdlabs_sups channel in Slack to let them know that a ticket was just escalated from Level 1 support and requires their attention
Draft approval process

A supervisor must approve all emails before they are sent to the user.

Before requesting approval, ensure the following actions have been completed:

Ownership has been taken of the oldest ticket in the NB-Labs - Level 1 Assignment Group
All appropriate fields are completed
All relevant information from tools such as NetID Admin and CAT is included

Methods for requesting approval:

Speak directly with an on-site supervisor
Post in the #esd_nb_level1_email Slack channel using the [draft review] tag

Upon review, a supervisor may:

Provide comments or recommend edits
Approve the draft

After review, supervisor approval must be documented in the ticket work notes. Approval in Slack alone is not sufficient. While it is the supervisor s responsibility to record this, if they do not, the consultant must include the NetID of the approving supervisor in the work notes.

Once approved, the email may be sent to the user by either resolving the ticket or placing it on hold.

Guidelines for ticket status:

The ticket may be resolved if the issue is fully resolved and no further assistance is required.
The ticket may be placed on hold if there is potential for the issue to recur.
In cases of uncertainty, placing the ticket on hold is preferred to allow the user to respond or ask follow-up questions before the ticket is automatically closed.

To place a ticket on hold:

Change State to On Hold
Select the on-hold reason as Awaiting Caller
Paste the email draft into the Additional Comments field
Click Save

To resolve a ticket:

Select Resolve on the top right of the page
Paste the email draft into the Resolution Notes
Click Resolve
Criteria for draft approval

Supervisors are evaluating tickets for correctness based on the following criteria:

The correct service offering is selected.
The consultant is assigned appropriately.
Work notes clearly describe the troubleshooting process.
Information from NetID Admin and CAT is included when relevant.
The response is technically accurate and complete.
External links are correct, active, and relevant.
Tone is professional and free of jargon and suited to the audience.
Supervisor housekeeping

A supervisor is responsible for assisting Level 1 consultants with email support. To accomplish this, supervisors will be asked to do the following tasks:

Check the Help@OIT Triage filter for emails that a Level 1 consultant can answer and assign them to the NB-Labs - Level 1 assignment group in ServiceNow.
Answer questions and approve email drafts in the #esd_nb_level1_email Slack channel.
Level 1 consultants will tag their draft approval requests using the [draft review] keyword.
Supervisors can set up the keyword notification in Slack by going to their profile in the lower right-hand corner and selecting Preferences. Under the My Keywords section of the Notifications menu, you will find a list of all the keywords that trigger a notification.




Check if there are any replies to tickets that were previously put on hold
If there is a reply, unassign the ticket from the consultant and change the state to New so the next available Labs Level 1 consultant can address the reply.
Check if any tickets have been on hold for 7 days or more
Have Level 1 consultants review these tickets and resolve them if needed.
Escalate tickets to Level 1 email support in the Help Desk when needed.
Review the Level 1 Consultant EOS responses and follow-up as needed.
Link brings you to the folder; Select the tracking sheet that has the semester you're looking for.
Delegate tickets to a Level 2 if a Level 1 consultant cannot address it.
" KB0018350 ServiceNow ServiceNow - Reassigning Incidents vs Incident Task "

Use this guide to determine whether to reassign an incident to a particular assignment group or create an Incident Task. Some groups may have different options depending on whether the Caller in the incident is Local IT Support for a department or an end user.

In some cases, you may be instructed by a Supervisor or FT to reassign or create a Task contrary to what is listed here.

Use Ctrl + F to make searching the table easier.

Decision matrix for routing ServiceNow support requests, showing each service organization or description, the corresponding assignment group, whether to reassign the incident or create an incident task, and any additional notes or special handling instructions.
Service Organization/Description	Assignment Group	Reassign Incident vs Incident Task	Notes
Rutgers Athletics	Athletics - Help Desk	Reassign Incident	Live in a limited capacity.
Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy	BSPPP - IT Support	Reassign Incident	
Center for Advanced Biotechnology and Medicine	CABM - Desktop and User Support	Reassign Incident	
Cancer Institute of New Jersey	CINJ - Helpdesk	Reassign Incident	
RU Camden IT	CMD-HD	Reassign Incident	
Digital Classroom Services	DCS - SNG	Reassign Incident	For urgent incidents, users should call the DCS Help Desk 848-445-3612. All other items use the DCS forms.
Banner Support	EAS - Banner Triage	Reassign (Local IT), Incident Task (End User)	
Box	EAS - Box Technical Support	Reassign (Local IT), Incident Task (End User)	
Connect	EAS - Connect Technical Support	Reassign (Local IT), Incident Task (End User)	
DocuSign & Perceptive Content issues	EAS - Enterprise Document Solutions (EDS) Triage	Reassign Incident	
NetID & CommunityID	EAS - Identity and Access Management	Reassign (Local IT), Incident Task (End User)	This group manages concerns related to identity and access management for both NetID and CommunityID.
Mailman Support	EAS - Mailman Technical Support	Reassign (Local IT), Incident Task (End User)	
Messaging and Collaboration Services (MaCS)	EAS - Messaging and Collaboration Services	Reassign (Local IT), Incident Task (End User)	
MyRutgers Support	EAS - myRutgers	Reassign (Local IT), Incident Task (End User)	
OIT Project Management Office	EAS - Project Management Office Triage	Reassign Incident	
RAMS	EAS - RAMS Technical Support	Reassign (Local IT), Incident Task (End User)	
RAD	EAS - Rutgers Active Directory	Reassign (Local IT), Incident Task (End User)	
Salesforce	EAS - Salesforce Support	Reassign (Local IT), Incident Task (End User)	
ScarletMail	EAS - ScarletMail Technical Support	Reassign (Local IT), Incident Task (End User)	
Sites@Rutgers	EAS - Sites@Rutgers Service	Reassign (Local IT), Incident Task (End User)	
Enterprise Application Services	EAS - Triage	Reassign (Local IT), Incident Task (End User)	
Software Portal	ESD - Software Site Licensing	Reassign Incident	
Citrix Support	EI - Citrix	Reassign (Local IT), Incident Task (End User)	See the EI Service Offering to Group map before using a triage group.
Data Center Infrastructure L1 Triage, Mgr Escalations, Monitoring, & Life-Safety Systems	EI - Data Centers & Technical Support	Reassign (Local IT), Incident Task (End User)	See the EI Service Offering to Group map before using a triage group.
Wired Network Installation and Repair and MACs. TV and audio-visual installation.	EI - Inside Plant - [CAMPUS]	Reassign Incident	See the EI Service Offering to Group map before using a triage group.
Lev1 Triage to allocate requests to appropriate groups for Mult-platform Systems and Services	EI - Multi-Platform Systems and Services Triage	Reassign (Local IT), Incident Task (End User)	See the EI Service Offering to Group map before using a triage group.
Lev2 Triage/Escalation Wireless, Infrastructure, Implementation, Survey & Design, Network Access Control	EI - Network Access Technologies	Reassign (Local IT), Incident Task (End User)	Any reports of the RUatHome/RUIOT/RUWireless SSID missing, Wireless issues
MAC Authentication Bypass	EI - Network Access Technologies (NAC)	Reassign (Local IT), Incident Task (End User)	Problems with the Passphrase portal or ISE registrations
Lev1 Triage, Infrastructure, Network Monitoring, Network Provisioning, DNS, DHCP Provisioning, Network Connectivity	EI - Network Operations Center	Reassign (Local IT), Incident Task (End User)	Wired ethernet issues, Switch/Port Config
Abuse (Non Confidential)	EI - Security Operations Center	Reassign Incident	Non Confidential System abuse incidents; note most abuse requests will still go through RT
Enterprise Infrastructure	EI - Triage	Reassign (Local IT), Incident Task (End User)	See the EI Service Offering to Group map before using a triage group.
Webex, Zoom, Viedo Conference Equipment	EI - Telepresence Collaboration	Reassign Incident	See the EI Service Offering to Group map before using a triage group.
Desk Phone Support	EI - Voice Services - [CAMPUS]	Reassign Incident	See the EI Service Offering to Group map before using a triage group.
Enrollment Management - New Brunswick IT	EM-NB - IT Tier 1	Reassign Incident	
Rutgers University Foundation	Foundation - Systems and Technology	Reassign Incident	
Graduate School of Applied and Professional Psychology	GSAPP - IT Support	Reassign Incident	
Human Resources IT	HR - HRIT Help Desk	Reassign Incident	Note: this group is for issues affecting HR users (e.g., desktop support, Rutgers Connect), not issues affecting HR systems.
Institute for Family Health Care Policy and Aging Research (IFH)	IFH - IT Help Desk	Reassign Incident	
Institute for Nicotine and Tobacco Studies	INTS - IT Support	Reassign Incident	
Institutional Planning and Operations (IP&O) IT	IPO-IT - Service Desk	Reassign Incident	
Institute for Quantitative Biomedicine (IQB)	IQB - IT Help Desk	Reassign Incident	
Information Security Office - Governance, Risk and Compliance	ISO Information Security Office	Reassign Incident	
Mason Gross School of the Arts	MGSA - IT Support	Reassign Incident	
OIT Faculty Staff Help Desk	NB-HD - Faculty and Staff Support Triage	Reassign Incident	
OIT Learning Management System Help Desk	NB-HD - Learning Management System Support Triage	Reassign Incident	Please use this group (or your local instructional technology team) for Canvas support
Qualtrics	NB-HD - Qualtrics	Reassign Incident	
OIT New Brunswick Computer Labs	NB-Labs - Triage	Reassign Incident	
New Jersey Medical School	NJMS - IT	Reassign Incident	
Office for Research	OFR - Research IT	Reassign Incident	
OIT Finance Telecommunications Billing	OIT Finance - Telecommunications Billing	Reassign Incident	
Rutgers Business School IT (OTIS)	RBS-IT - Service Desk Triage	Reassign Incident	
Rutgers School of Dental Medicine	RSDM - Triage	Reassign Incident	
Rutgers University Libraries	RUL - Triage	Reassign Incident	
Newark Arts, Culture & Media and Express Newark	RUN-IT - ACM	Reassign Incident	
RU Newark IT	RUN-IT - HD Triage	Reassign Incident	
Robert Wood Johnson Medical School	RWJMS - New Brunswick	Reassign Incident	
School of Communication and Information	SCI - IT Helpdesk	Reassign Incident	
Student Affairs IT	SA - Information Technology	Reassign Incident	
School of Arts and Sciences (New Brunswick)	SAS - Helpdesk	Reassign Incident	
School of Environmental and Biological Sciences	SEBS - Triage	Reassign Incident	
Rutgers School of Health Professions	SHP - Technology Services	Reassign Incident	
School of Nursing	SON - IT	Reassign Incident	
Rutgers School of Public Health	SPH - Tech	Reassign Incident	
Rutgers School of Social Work	SSW - Triage	Reassign Incident	
Rutgers University Behavioral Health Care	UBHC - Helpdesk	Reassign Incident	
University Communications and Marketing	UCM - Tech Support	Reassign Incident	
University Enrollment Services	UES - Desktop Support	Reassign Incident	
University Finance and Administration	UFA - IT Help Desk	Reassign Incident	
University Procurement Services	UPS - Help Desk	Reassign Incident	
Waksman Institute	Waksman Institute - IT Support	Reassign Incident	
" KB0017609 ServiceNow ServiceNow - Response Templates "
Table of Contents
Help@OIT Response
Help@OIT Activation Key
Help@OIT DUO Bypass Code
Help@ DUO Bypass Code Call-In Request
Help@OIT Configure Device on ResNet
OIT HD General Resolution Note
Help@OIT Resolving After End of Hold Date
Help@OIT Response

Hello [USER'S FIRST NAME],

Thank you for contacting the OIT Help Desk.

[ IF THE USER'S EMAIL IS 3 OR MORE DAYS OLD, PLEASE SEND THIS:] I apologize for the delay in replying to your email. The volume of mail we receive has kept me from getting to your message until today.

[Manually write in the user's answer]

[IF PLACING INCIDENT ON HOLD:] Your issue has been marked as on hold. If you are still encountering issues regarding this incident, please respond to this email with more information or call the OIT Help Desk at 833-OIT-HELP (648-4357). If you are not encountering any more issues, your response is not required, and this incident will resolve in 7 days.

[IF RESOLVING INCIDENT:] Your issue has been marked as resolved, but it has not been closed. If you are still encountering issues regarding this incident, call the OIT Help Desk at 833-OIT-HELP (648-4357) or visit the Rutgers IT Help Portal: https://ithelp.rutgers.edu/. If you are not encountering any more issues, your response is not required, and this incident will close automatically in 5 days.

Best,
[YOUR FIRST NAME]
OIT Help Desk
833-OIT-HELP (648-4357)



Help@OIT Activation Key

Hello [USER'S FIRST NAME],

Thank you for contacting the OIT Help Desk.

Your activation key is [ACTIVATION_KEY]

Instructions to unlock security questions and reset password:

1. Visit https://netid.rutgers.edu/displayForgottenPasswordForm.htm
2. Enter the following information:
- NetID: Your NetID in all lowercase letters
- First Name: Your first name, with the first letter capitalized
- Last Name: Your last name, with the first letter capitalized
- Identifier: Select the bubble next to the identifier you wish to use, then enter the digits of the identifier.
If you are a guest of Rutgers University, be sure to enter your pseudo-Social Security Number given to you by your sponsor.
- Date of Birth: Your date of birth in the MM/DD/YYYY format
- Activation Key: The activation key listed above
3. Click I m not a robot, You should see a green check mark after clicking this.
4. Click Continue to submit the form.
- If you receive an error message, please verify that your information has been entered correctly.
5. After submitting the form, you should now be able to change your security questions and answers in case you need to reset your password in the future. Click Update Questions once you are finished.
6. Enter your new password, then click Reset Password to confirm your change.

After successfully resetting the password, log into personalinfo.rutgers.edu and update:

- Your emergency cell phone number in the "Emergency Contacts and Notification" tab.
- Your personal (non-Rutgers) email address in the "Address Update" tab.

This will allow you to use your mobile number or your alternate email address to reset your password remotely, should that be necessary for the future.

[IF PLACING INCIDENT ON HOLD:] Your issue has been marked as on hold. If you are still encountering issues regarding this incident, please respond to this email with more information or call the OIT Help Desk at 833-OIT-HELP (648-4357). If you are not encountering any more issues, your response is not required, and this incident will resolve in 7 days.

[IF RESOLVING INCIDENT:] Your issue has been marked as resolved, but it has not been closed. If you are still encountering issues regarding this incident, call the OIT Help Desk at 833-OIT-HELP (648-4357) or visit the Rutgers IT Help Portal: https://ithelp.rutgers.edu/. If you are not encountering any more issues, your response is not required, and this incident will close automatically in 5 days.

Best,
[YOUR FIRST NAME]
OIT Help Desk
833-OIT-HELP (648-4357)



Help@OIT DUO Bypass Code

Hello [USER'S FIRST NAME],

Thank you for contacting the OIT Help Desk.

In order to update your DUO devices please reference the following webpage: https://ithelp.rutgers.edu/sp?id=kb_article&sysparm_article=KB0012519

Your DUO Bypass Code is as follows: <Bypass Code>

To use the code, please enter it when prompted with the DUO Authentication Method within the Enter a Passcode option. Please note that this code only lasts 2 hours since its generation and can only be used twice. If you do not utilize this code within 2 hours, you will need to contact the Help Desk again for another code.

Upon adding your new device to DUO, we recommend adding a secondary device. You may add another device such as a mobile phone by following the instructions on this webpage: https://ithelp.rutgers.edu/sp?id=kb_article_view&sysparm_article=KB0012446

You may also opt to obtain a Duo hardware token as described here: https://ithelp.rutgers.edu/sp?id=kb_article&sysparm_article=KB0012534

Your issue has been marked as on hold. If you are still encountering issues regarding this incident, please respond to this email with more information or call the OIT Help Desk at 833-OIT-HELP (833-648-4357). If you are not encountering any more issues, your response is not required, and this incident will resolve in 7 days.

Best,
[YOUR FIRST NAME]
OIT Help Desk
833-OIT-HELP (648-4357)



Help@ DUO Bypass Code Call-In Request

Hello [USER'S FIRST NAME],

Thank you for contacting the OIT Help Desk.

Due to DUO Bypass codes being time-sensitive, we strongly recommend calling the OIT Help Desk at (833-648-4357) for immediate assistance. The bypass codes expire automatically after 2 hours and are only valid for 2 uses.

Our office hours can be found at https://it.rutgers.edu/new-brunswick/oit-help-desk-at-rutgers-new-brunswick/. Please refer to this incident number once you speak to a consultant. If you are unable to call the OIT Help Desk, please provide us a callback phone number and time blocks of when you would like a callback for this issue.

Your issue has been marked as on hold. If you are still encountering issues regarding this incident, please respond to this email with more information or call the OIT Help Desk at 833-OIT-HELP (833-648-4357). If you are not encountering any more issues, your response is not required, and this incident will resolve in 7 days.

Best,
[YOUR FIRST NAME]
OIT Help Desk
833-OIT-HELP (648-4357)



Help@OIT Configure Device on ResNet

Hello [USER'S FIRST NAME],

Thank you for contacting the OIT Help Desk.

[ IF THE USER'S EMAIL IS 3 OR MORE DAYS OLD, PLEASE SEND THIS:] I apologize for the delay in replying to your email. The volume of mail we receive has kept me from getting to your message until today.

In order to connect your device to the Rutgers Residential Network, please follow the steps listed at our FAQ site: https://it.rutgers.edu/knowledgebase/connecting-game-consoles-and-smart-tvs/

At your earliest convenience, reply to this email with the following information so that we can further investigate connecting your device to ResNet:

- Your NetID
- Type of device
- MAC address
- Campus, building, and room number

[IF PLACING INCIDENT ON HOLD:] Your issue has been marked as on hold. If you are still encountering issues regarding this incident, please respond to this email with more information or call the OIT Help Desk at 833-OIT-HELP (648-4357). If you are not encountering any more issues, your response is not required, and this incident will resolve in 7 days.

[IF RESOLVING INCIDENT:] Your issue has been marked as resolved, but it has not been closed. If you are still encountering issues regarding this incident, call the OIT Help Desk at 833-OIT-HELP (648-4357) or visit the Rutgers IT Help Portal: https://ithelp.rutgers.edu/. If you are not encountering any more issues, your response is not required, and this incident will close automatically in 5 days.

Best,
[YOUR FIRST NAME]
OIT Help Desk
833-OIT-HELP (648-4357)



OIT HD General Resolution Note

Hello [USER'S FIRST NAME],

Thank you for contacting the OIT Help Desk.

[ IF THE USER'S EMAIL IS 3 OR MORE DAYS OLD, PLEASE SEND THIS: ] I apologize for the delay in replying to your email. The volume of mail we receive has kept me from getting to your message until today.

[IF RESOLVING INCIDENT] Your issue has been marked as resolved, but it has not been closed. If you are still encountering issues regarding this incident, call the OIT Help Desk at 833-OIT-HELP (648-4357) or visit the Rutgers IT Help Portal: https://ithelp.rutgers.edu/. If you are not encountering any more issues, your response is not required, and this incident will close automatically in 5 days.

Best,
[YOUR FIRST NAME]
OIT Help Desk
833-OIT-HELP (648-4357)



Help@OIT Resolving After End of Hold Date

Hello [USER'S FIRST NAME],

Thank you for contacting the OIT Help Desk.

This email is to inform you that your issue regarding ${short_description} has been marked as resolved as its on-hold date has passed.

Your issue has not yet been closed. If you are still encountering issues regarding this incident, call the OIT Help Desk at 833-OIT-HELP (648-4357) or visit the Rutgers IT Help Portal: https://ithelp.rutgers.edu/. If you are not encountering any more issues, your response is not required, and this incident will close automatically in 5 days.

Best,
[YOUR FIRST NAME]
OIT Help Desk
833-OIT-HELP (648-4357)



" KB0016176 ServiceNow ServiceNow - Sharing Knowledge Article (KA) Links "

There are 4 different links that can take you to various versions of an article.

Portal PermaLink

This is the link that should always be used whenever referencing an article to a user.

It is the link on the self-service Portal that takes the user to the most updated version of the article.

Navigate to the article on the Portal and click Copy Permalink located at the top or bottom of the article.

Example: https://ithelp.rutgers.edu/sp?id=kb_article_view&sysparm_article=KB0012508

Note: it will always start with ithelp. and end with an article number such as KB1234567

Portal sys_id link

When used, this will take the user to this specific version of the article. It will not bring them to the most current version of the article if it has since been updated, which is why this one should not be used.

When viewing an article in the Portal, this is the link in the URL bar on the browser.

Example: https://ithelp.rutgers.edu/sp?id=kb_article_view&sys_kb_id=08138ef71bbe4110743c54a51a4bcbf0

Back End PermaLink

It is the link in the back end of ServiceNow that takes the user to the most updated version of the article.

This link can be used for internal documentation.

Navigate to the article in the back end (our internal view of ServiceNow) and click Copy Permalink located at the bottom of the article.

Example: https://rutgers.service-now.com/kb_view.do?sysparm_article=KB0012508

Back End sys_id link

It is the link in the back end of ServiceNow that takes the user to a specific version of the article.

Navigate to the article in the back end (our internal view of ServiceNow), this is the link in the URL bar on the browser.

Example: https://rutgers.service-now.com/kb_knowledge.do?sys_id=08138ef71bbe4110743c54a51a4bcbf0&sysparm_referring_url=kb_view.do



Permalinks will always have a URL that ends in the KB number

" KB0019410 Software Installation Upgrade SmartView to the latest version "
What is SmartView?

Smart View enables you to integrate ERP, enterprise performance management (EPM), and business intelligence (BI) data directly from the data source into Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Excel, and Outlook. Using Smart View, you can view, import, manipulate, distribute, and share data in Office-based interfaces.

How to upgrade SmartView to the latest version

Please note that if your default browser is Mozilla Firefox or Google Chrome, a browser add-on is required.

Verify that all Microsoft Office applications, including Excel, Word, and Outlook, are fully closed.
Uninstall the current version of Oracle SmartView from your device.
Install the latest version of SmartView.

Once the zip file download is complete, extract its contents: Compressed Folder Tools ribbon > Extract all. If you lose track of the download file, check the Downloads folder.




The Select a Destination and Extract Files pop-up will appear. Select Extract. After the pop-up, confirm the default save location as is, then click OK.




Once the zip file is extracted, navigate to the folder containing the extracted files, and Double-Click SmartView.exe to start the installation wizard as the user.




When installation is complete, click OK. The Smart View ribbon is displayed the next time you open Microsoft Excel, PowerPoint, or Word.





If you encounter any issues during this process, please contact the OIT Help Desk for further assistance.

" KB0011941 Supervisors Supervisors - HD Closing Duties "
Make sure no HD phones are still logged in.
Make sure all stations are relatively clean and tidy.
Turn off all 3 TVs and the Raspberry Pis associated with them.
10 minutes before closing, contact After Hours Support to let them know the status of pending calls and ask them to log on to the phones.
Usually, this is done via Slack message, where incidents can be threaded.
Turn off iPads at the front station.
Turn off all the lights and ensure the doors are completely shut.
Close the FT and Mailroom doors if they have not already been closed.
Ensure any Coffee Pots in the Break Room are turned off/cleaned.
The Level 3 should be the last person to leave unless an FT is still around in the office and approved for you to leave.
" KB0011933 Supervisors Supervisors - Opening Duties "
Opening Shifts

Opening Supervisors are scheduled to arrive 15 minutes before the Help Desk opens to help with opening duties, including:

Turn on all three TVs.

TV 1 (walk-in station)

Turn on TV
Turn On Raspberry Pi using the power switch on the plug in the back.
TV 2 (Front)

Turn on TV
Turn On Raspberry Pi using the power switch on the plug in the back.
TV 3 (Back)

Turn on TV
Turn On Raspberry Pi using the power switch on the plug in the back.
Turn on all of the Kiosks at the front station.

If the program is not up, click on PowerApps and log in. Click on the PowerApp HD Client Check-In.
The direct URL for the web is: http://go.rutgers.edu/je551l8i
Check the triage queue for tickets that need to be addressed.
Check for unaddressed voice mail as in the after-hours queue.
Check the schedule for open shifts/coverage issues for the day. If there are any openings, post the shifts in hd_coverages (unless Closing Supervisors from the previous day already posted them).
Clean up any additional trash and clean up any stations that may be dirty.
Place any name tags back at CSQ.
Note any consultants that arrive 15 minutes or earlier in PTS for merits.
Open the door five minutes before the Help Desk opening time. If the door is open the lights are ON.
Ensure one Level 2 Consultant is stationed at Front Station. Prioritize any consultants on email shifts.
" KB0014408 TD TD - Voice & Telephone Services "
General Information

If a user calls in regards to Telephone Voice Services within the University, make a ticket in the EI - Voice Services - Triage queue and leave it open. Additionally, if you are aware which campus the user is inquiring about, you may assign it to the according campus, such as the following:

EI - Voice Services - RBHS
EI - Voice Services - Newark
EI - Voice Services - Piscataway
EI - Voice Services - Newark RU

Once you assign the ticket accordingly, provide the user with their ticket number.

Inform the user that they would additionally be able to contact the NOC (Network Operations Center) via voice@rutgers.edu.

If the person who calls is a UCS (Unit Computing Specialist), you may provide the NOC phone number, 848-445-7541, to them. If the person who calls is not a UCS, please check with a supervisor prior to distributing the NOC phone number. The user can also create their own ServiceNow ticket at https://tdtools.rutgers.edu/voiceservice/.

Changing a VOIP Phone Password

If the user needs to change the password of their VOIP phone, create a ticket in the EI - Voice Services - Triage queue. The user can submit a request here:

Go to https://ithelp.rutgers.edu/sp?id=sc_cat_item&sys_id=c2efd4351bc211507368b802dd4bcbd2&referrer=recent_items
Enter their NetID and password > Login
Select which school their request is for.
This may either be Rutgers or RBHS.
Select I need to report a problem > I can't retrieve my voicemail - please reset my password
Select New Service > enter their manager's name.
Enter their request number
This will be their office phone number or the phone number for which they need to reset the password.
Select Contact number is the same as the request number unless the user wishes to be contacted on a different number.
Enter the building location, room number, and keep the priority low.
Select Finish.

Once the user submits the request, TD will follow up with them at their contact number.

" KB0014184 VPN VPN - Help Desk Staff Private VPN "

EI has set up a Private VPN service for Help Desk staff during the period of working from home. Access is granted only to OIT ESD employees in Camden/Newark/New Brunswick.

This VPN provides an alternative route and will be available in the event of Cisco AnyConnect issues. Please reach out to your management team with any questions regarding installation.

Directions for Windows users

Directions for macOS users

Download FunnelBlick for macOS

Windows VPN download and configuration files for all operating systems

Instructional Video

" KB0018347 VPN VPN - RDGateway issues "

Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) Gateway provides RDP access to on-campus Windows desktops from external networks without requiring a Virtual Private Network (VPN). Any issues with the Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) Gateway (rdgateway.rutgers.edu) not working can be addressed by the EI - Windows Systems assignment group in ServiceNow.

Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) Gateway access for Windows instructions

Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) Gateway access for MacOS instructions

" KB0014118 Webex Webex - Information and Troubleshooting "
Table of Contents
Webex Support Quick Tips
General Information
What is Webex?
How many people can Webex host?
What are we expected to support?
Who is eligible to use Rutgers Webex?
How to escalate issues beyond your troubleshooting ability.
Webex License Comparison Chart
Useful links
Webex Support Quick Tips
If users are unable to log in to Webex, have they activated their accounts? Directions on the Rutgers Webex site.
If they are unable to join a meeting, please follow the below troubleshooting options:
Have they had trouble joining all meetings or just specific ones?
What OS are they using? Are they joining from the browser or with the downloaded application? Are their computer and browser up to date?
Are they able to join the Webex test meeting? Directions on the Cisco Webex site.
If so, they should confirm the details of the meeting they are having trouble joining. This could include reaching out to the meeting host or professor to confirm start time, that the host has joined the meeting, that the meeting time or joining link/meeting number has not changed, that the user contacting us is listed as an attendee if the meeting is locked, etc.
If they are unable to select Join Meeting or it is greyed out, they must select an audio connection. It may say "Call me" under the greyed-out Join Meeting button. If they select this and change to "Use computer for audio," they can use their computer's speakers and microphone to join. They will also need to give their browser permission to use the microphone and camera, which should pop up in the top left when they first try to join the meeting. If they are using the app, you can find more information about configuring audio and video connections at the Cisco Webex site.
After we troubleshoot all of this, please get the meeting number (7XX XXX XXX) before escalating the issue so we can look into the specific meeting!
For other issues, please consult the resources on the Rutgers Webex site and the Cisco Webex Help site to find an answer before escalating the issue. Many common questions have answers on these sites (e.g., recording a meeting, setting alternate hosts, etc.)
General Information
What is Webex?

WebEx is a set of tools designed for personal and corporate collaboration. It s used to connect with others, typically through the internet, and allows you to communicate via audio, video, text chat, file sharing, whiteboards, and other features.

How many people can Webex host?
Our current Enterprise License Agreement provides all of the following services in one package:
All Webex accounts include licenses: Webex Meetings and Webex Events. This will apply to any user who activates a Webex account through the Service Activation portal on netid.rutgers.edu OR when a Domain Admin activates a Webex account through the CAT tool.
Currently, users are assigned a Webex Meetings license when they activate a Webex account, and Domain Admins can assign additional license features when needed.
Domain Admins will be unable to turn on individual license features through the CAT tool; however, they will still be able to look up users within their domain to confirm whether they have activated a Webex account.
A Support Center license will be issued only upon special request, after review by EITC.
Meeting Center - Fully participatory meetings with up to 1025 attendees.
Webinar Center - A one-to-many application for large-scale events with up to 1,000 attendees.
??????Support Center - Technical support through a WebEx platform with 8 concurrent sessions with 5 participants in each.
The links above lead to Cisco's descriptions of each service if you need more information.
The catch is that not all 1,000 members will be able to click a link to the meeting.
The standard meeting should support
Up to 500 attendees using the WebEx software on a device.
Up to 1000 attendees dialing in over VOIP.
Up to 500 attendees using phones.
Up to 25 room systems.
The pages on collaboration help are supposed to be the most up-to-date information:
https://help.webex.com/en-us/article/ne50jcfb/Start-a-Webex-Meeting
What are we expected to support?

The OIT Help Desks are expected to provide first-level support for Webex software and hardware issues. This includes general account troubleshooting (account creation, password issues, etc.), general use (setting up meetings, joining meetings, etc.), general hardware troubleshooting (settings, connections, etc.), and other issues to be determined. The OIT Help Desks will also serve as an escalation point for issues beyond our support level.

Who is eligible to use Rutgers Webex?
All faculty/staff and students can obtain a Webex license.
Guests can also obtain a license;se, however, the license must be provisioned by a domain administrator.
How to escalate issues beyond your troubleshooting ability.

When confronted with an issue that exceeds the scope of this document or your troubleshooting capabilities, you should bring it to the attention of the next level of support. The second level of support for Webex issues is the Knowledge Management Team. Should you not be able to reach them, you can reach out to the Tech Team. Issues that exceeded either level of support will be escalated to EITC by emailing eitc@oit.rutgers.edu.

Webex License Comparison Chart
Useful links
Schedule a Meeting in Microsoft Outlook Using the Webex App
What is the Maximum Number of Participants in a Webex Session or Call?
Install and Set Up the Cisco Webex App
Get Started with Cisco Webex Meetings for Hosts
" KB0017428 Webex Webex - UCM Calling "

Webex calling enables a user to have their Webex app function as their office desk phone. This is referred to as a soft phone and replaces the old Jabber soft phone system. They can place and answer calls on the Webex app on their desktop or mobile device using the phone number associated with their office phone. Other features, such as hunt group calls (calls to a central number that rings on multiple phones), work with this as well.

When viewing a user's profile on CAT, you can determine if they have already been set up for this service. If they have, you will see a feature labeled "Unified Communication Manager (UCM)" under Webex > Services.

Requirements

User must have a Cisco office phone and an active Rutgers Webex account. Confirm this before escalating.

If using it on their mobile device, ensure the Webex app was downloaded from the Intune Company Portal, and not from their phone's default app store.

Escalation

Voice Services handles setting up the user for this feature to be enabled. After verifying the requirements above, any issues or requests to set it up can be sent to EI - Voice Services.

Additional Information

See the public knowledge article on Webex Calling for additional information.

A copy of the setup instructions that the user will receive is attached to the linked article. Voice Services must set up their phone before they attempt these instructions.

" KB0014125 Windows Windows - Americans With Disabilities Act Software (ADA) "
Ease of Access Center

Numerous applications are available to assist users with disabilities that may affect their ability to use Windows computers. The Ease of Access Center in Windows 10 and Windows 11 offers magnification and speech for the visually impaired, using text or visual alternatives for people who are hard of hearing, and an on-screen keyboard and mouse keys for those who have trouble using the keyboard or mouse.

To reach the Ease of Access Center, open the Control Panel and select Ease of Access. The shortcut Windows Key+U can be used to quickly get to this screen.







Magnifier

An application to assist users with slight visual impairments. It will display a small, magnified window along the top of the screen that follows the movement of the keyboard focus or the mouse cursor. It will take up large parts of the screen to make it easier to read. The zoom and the magnification can be adjusted bigger or smaller. The screen view will follow the mouse.







Narrator

A text-to-speech application that can assist patrons with visual impairments in using the computer. It will say the words on the screen or verbally describe what is on it (such as a checked or unchecked box).

Display Accessibility Options

The screen can be changed to high contrast by selecting Set up High Contrast. Turn the high contrast on or off by pressing Left ALT+Left SHIFT+Print Screen.

Select Use text or visual alternatives for sounds to replace the auditory alert with a flash. The visual warnings include the Flash active caption bar, the Flash active window, and the Flash desktop. Additionally, users can select Turn on text captions for spoken dialogue. The volume can be adjusted by selecting Adjust Volume.

Input Accessibility Settings

Enabling the On-Screen Keyboard assists patrons with mobility impairments. It allows patrons to type on the screen using the mouse instead of the keyboard. To turn on Sticky Keys so that one can press keyboard shortcuts one key at a time, go to Make it easier to focus on tasks and select Turn on Sticky Keys.

By selecting Make the mouse easier to use, the user will be prompted to choose from a few options to configure the mouse. The color and size of the mouse pointers can be changed, and Mouse Keys can be turned on, allowing the user to use the number keypad to move the mouse around the screen.

The Ease of Access folder also has the option for Speech Recognition. From this selection, the computer can be configured to follow commands using one s voice. The program has to be trained to the user s voice; this process may take a while.

" KB0014127 Windows Windows - Common Keyboard Shortcuts "
Common Windows Keyboard Shortcuts

It is not required to memorize these shortcuts, but it will aid your computing experience.

Keystroke	Action
CTRL+A	Select All
CTRL+B	Bold selected text
CTRL+C	Copy
CTRL+F	Open the Find dialog box
CTRL+I	Italicize selected text
CTRL+N	Open a new file or window
CTRL+P	Open Print dialog box
CTRL+S	Save the active file
CTRL+T	Open a new tab
CTRL+V	Paste
CTRL+W	Close active window or tab
CTRL+X	Cut
CTRL+Z	Undo
CTRL+Y	Redo
CTRL+SHIFT+ESC	Open Task Manager
CTRL+ALT+DELETE	Open the Windows Security dialog box
F2	Rename the selected item
F3	Search for File or Folder
F5	Refresh
ALT+ENTER	View the properties for the selected item
ALT+F4	Close the active item, or quit the active program
ALT+F	Open File menu drop-down
ALT+TAB	Switch between open applications
BACKSPACE	View the folder one level up in Windows
SHIFT+D	Delete the item without placing it in the Recycle Bin
ESC	Cancel the current task
PrtSc (Print Screen)	Takes a screen capture of the entire desktop
ALT+PrtSc	Take a screen capture of the active window
Win+Home	Minimize all but the active window
Win+Up Arrow	Maximize the active window
SHIFT+Win+Up Arrow	Maximize the active window vertically
Win+Down Arrow	Minimize the active window
Win+Left/Right Arrows	Dock the window to each side of the monitor
SHIFT+Win+Left/Right Arrows	Move the window to the monitor on the left or right
Win+CTRL+D	Create a new virtual desktop and switch to it
Win+CTRL+F4	Close the current virtual desktop
Win+CTRL+Left/Right Arrows	Switch to the virtual desktop on the left or right
Win+A	Open the Action Center
Win+C	Launch Cortana in listening mode (for voice commands)
Win+D	Show Desktop
Win+I	Open the Settings app
Win+S	Launch search
Mouse Gestures
Keystroke	Action
Drag the window to the top/Double-click the top of the window	Maximizes the selected window
Drag the window left/right	Snaps the selected window to fill half of the screen
Shake the window left/right	Minimize everything but the selected window
Double-Click top window border (edge)	Maximize the window vertically
Move the mouse to the bottom right-most corner of the taskbar	All windows become transparent, revealing the desktop
Click the small button on the far right of the taskbar	All windows are minimized, and the desktop is shown
Taskbar shortcuts (Mouse)
Keystroke	Action
SHIFT+Click on a taskbar button	Open a program or quickly open another instance of a program
CTRL+SHIFT+Click on a taskbar button	Open a program as an administrator
SHIFT+Right-click on a taskbar button	Show the window menu for the program
SHIFT+Right-click on a grouped taskbar button	Show the window menu for the group
CTRL+Click on a grouped taskbar button	Cycle through the windows of the group
Other Useful Shortcuts
Keystroke	Action
CTRL+SHIFT+N:	Creates a new folder in Windows Explorer
ALT+Up	Goes up a folder level in Windows Explorer
ALT+P	Toggles the preview pane in Windows Explorer
SHIFT+Right-Click on a folder	Adds Command Prompt Here, allowing the user to open a command prompt in that folder easily
Win+P	Adjust presentation settings for the display
Win+(+/-)	Zoom in/out with the mag'ifi'r
Win+E	Open a new Windows Explorer window
Win+R	Open the Run prompt
Mac Keyboard Translations for Windows
Mac Key	Windows Equivalent
COMMAND	CTRL
CONTROL	CTRL
OPTION	ALT

Additional shortcuts can be found at Microsoft's Keyboard shortcuts in Windows page.

" KB0014124 Windows Windows - Consultant Manual - Windows 10 "
The Windows 10 Operating System

Windows 10 is an operating system developed by Microsoft for business and home users. It provides a graphical user interface (GUI) that makes it easy to navigate and perform day-to-day tasks.

In our lab, many Macintosh computers can boot either macOS or Windows 10 using Boot Camp. PCs will only boot into Windows 10. For basic Windows 10 operations, please review the tutorials available in LinkedIn Learning's Windows 10 literacy course.

LinkedIn Learning content is accessible free to Rutgers University faculty, staff, and students via https://linkedin.rutgers.edu/.

Desktop

The desktop is the main screen that appears when the computer is turned on and logged into Windows 10. Folders and icons on the desktop serve as links to programs, files, web browsers, etc.

Taskbar

The Taskbar is located at the bottom of the desktop screen and displays currently running programs. It allows patrons to switch easily between various running applications. New features that set Windows 10 apart from its predecessors include the ability to search for programs and files using the integrated search bar, as well as greater customization and usability.

The icons on the far right of the Taskbar together make up the System Tray, which displays programs that are generally running in the background or minimized (not displayed). For example, these may include instant messaging, antivirus programs, network connectivity status, and notifications.

Start Menu

The new Windows 10 Start Menu includes a wider array of Microsoft Live Tiles. Some useful features include the Mail client, the Cortana assistant, and easy access to commonly used programs and files. The integrated search bar now searches the internet and local files. All programs are listed in the Start Menu's center list. Keep in mind that the Control Panel and the Devices and Printers tab are no longer listed on the Start Menu and must be searched for, or accessed by right-clicking the Start Menu. The power options can also be accessed from the Start Menu.

Note: You can see who is logged into the computer by clicking the three bars in the top left corner and looking at the name above Settings in the bottom left, or by clicking the profile image on the left side of the Start Menu. This is very useful when troubleshooting why a user's print job is not showing up in the queue.

Pin To

Programs can be pinned to the Start Menu, where they appear as a permanent square panel, or to the Taskbar, where they remain as permanent icons at the bottom of the screen.

To pin any desired program to either the Start Menu or the Taskbar, search for it, and under its search result, you should see the Pin to Start and Pin to Taskbar options.

To pin an open program to the Taskbar: Right-click the icon > Pin to Taskbar.





Show Desktop (Aero Peek)

Another useful feature in the Taskbar is the Show desktop option, which can be used by clicking the thin rectangular box on the far-right side of the Taskbar. This quickly minimizes all open windows and displays the desktop.

Alternatively, press Windows key + D to minimize all open windows and quickly access the desktop.

Opening Applications

Open the Start Menu to see a list of all the computer's programs. Scroll to find the program or program folder you wish to open, then click it. Alternatively, typing the application's name in the bottom Start Menu search bar provides quicker access.

Alt+Tab Shortcut

The Alt + Tab shortcut lets you navigate through open windows without using the mouse. Pressing this key combination cycles through each window and displays a preview. Releasing the Alt key while highlighting a window brings it to the front and makes it the active window.

This shortcut is handy for quick, easy navigation among open windows and programs. It is especially handy when many windows are open and immediate access to a particular one is needed.

Alternatively, use Windows key + Tab to open Task View, which displays all running apps and windows in a list. Unlike the previous Alt + Tab function, Task View will remain open even after releasing the keys.

Accessing Software and Files with Run

To access Run, type "Run" into the Start Menu's search bar or press Windows key + R. This box lets you enter a specific name to open programs, files, folders, and networks. For example, consultants can open Google Chrome by opening Run and typing in "Chrome".

Using the Command Prompt

The command prompt is a text-based interface for running commands and applications, as well as for manipulating system settings. Most tasks that can be performed via the command prompt can also be performed via the Windows graphical user interface (GUI). To access the Command Prompt, search "Command" or "cmd" in the Start Menu's search bar and open the program by clicking it or using the Enter key.

File Explorer

The File Explorer is a shell, much like the Command Prompt. It is a file manager used to access and manipulate files stored on the local drive, removable media, and some remote file servers. On the left-hand side of the window is the task pane, which displays a list of common actions and destinations relevant to the current directory or selected file(s).

Locking Desktop

As an OIT employee, protecting patron information is crucial. Windows 10 allows you to lock your computer, requiring a password to regain access. This feature should be used whenever you step away to keep data secure. To lock your desktop, you can use one of two methods:

Click your user icon on the Start Menu and select Lock
Pressing the Windows key + L.
Logging Off

Due to administrative settings, the lab computers cannot be logged off via the power button on the Start Menu to avoid accidental device shutdowns during update periods. To log off a machine, one can take three approaches:

One can log off by utilizing the Logoff shortcut found in the Start Menu.
By clicking your user icon on the Start Menu and selecting Sign out.
Pressing Ctrl + Alt + Delete at the same time and selecting Sign out.
Deep Freeze

A user's files will remain in their user folder until the computers revert to their default image before the lab opens the next day. This process will result in the files being wiped from the user folder. If a user forgets to retrieve their files from a lab computer, remind them they have until the lab closes to do so. This is NOT a 24-hour cycle; all files are routinely removed in the morning.

KeyAccess

KeyAccess is the client software that enables access to the Key Server and runs the Key Server software. A Key Server is a system for managing our limited number of licenses (also called "keys") for each application, such as Microsoft Office or Photoshop. A client such as KeyAccess will notify the server when a program requiring a key is opened, and the server will provide a valid key so long as the key is in use. For example, if the Labs have only 5 keys for an application, only 5 machines on the network can access that program at a time. Occasionally, all keys may be used, and an error message will pop up stating, "All licenses for the program are checked out." In this situation, a patron must wait until a key becomes available. In addition, if a patron leaves a program idle for a certain period of time, KeyAccess will send a message asking the patron g to close the program for others' use.

Rarely, the display message "Searching for shadows" will appear. This occurs when the KeyAccess program cannot connect to the Key Server. A "shadow" is a local server that handles the Key Server duties while the connection with the main Key Server is being established. If this is occurring, it is important to notify an available supervisor.

Americans with Disabilities Act Software

See KB0014125.

Common Windows Keyboard Shortcuts


See KB0014127.

File Storage/Sharing

See KB0014128.

Windows Task Manager

See KB0014129.

Temporarily Installing Programs

See KB0014130.

" KB0014128 Windows Windows - File storage/sharing "
USB Flash Drives

USB (Universal Serial Bus) flash drives are easy and convenient ways to store and transfer files, thanks to their relatively large storage capacity. When the drive is connected, the operating system recognizes it as an external hard drive. With a flash drive, files can be saved, recovered, and erased. It is important to remove flash drives safely, as physically disconnecting one while it is transferring data can result in corrupted files.

To safely disconnect a USB flash device:

Select the Safely Remove Hardware and Eject Media icon in the system tray.
Select the device (as in the screenshot below)
Select Eject Flash Drive.

This will cause a pop-up message to appear stating that the USB device can now be safely removed. Sometimes, an error message will state that the USB device cannot be safely removed because it is still in use. In this situation, verify that no programs access data on the flash drive before trying again.

SD Cards

SD (Secure Digital) Cards can be used as an easy and convenient way to store and save files. Like flash drives, SD Cards have relatively large storage space and are not limited to storing pictures in cameras. Insert the SD Card into the device's corresponding slot. Just like a flash drive, the computer will recognize the SD Card as an external drive, and you must safely disconnect it using the steps described above.

One notable downside of using SD Cards for file storage is the frequent lack of device input compatibility. USB hubs and adapters exist to increase this compatibility, but it is unlikely that most users will have one on hand.

Compressing Files

Windows 10 natively supports .zip file compression.

To compress a file, right-click on the file and select Send to > Compressed (zip folder). Additionally, files may be added to the archive by dragging them to the compressFolder.
To extract files from the zipped archive, right-click the archive and select Extract All. A wizard will open to guide the user through the extraction process step by step. Alternatively, one can view the contents of the compressed folder by double-clicking the folder s icon, then dragging the file(s) from the folder to any drive location or the desktop. Windows will then automatically decompress the file.
Box Drive

Box Drive is a cloud-based storage solution for Rutgers community members, accessible with their NetID and password. When files are uploaded to a user's Box Drive, they are made available to them from anywhere they can access Box. In addition to accessing files through the Box website, lab machines are imaged with a software copy of Box Drive, which is integrated with Windows File Explorer or the Mac Finder.

PuTTy

PuTTY is an SSH, login, and telnet terminal emulator that can be utilized to provide secure access to a UNIX shell environment.

Starting a Session:

When the software starts, a window titled PuTTY Configuration should open. This window has a configuration pane on the left, a Host Name (or IP address) field, and other options in the middle, and a pane for saving session profiles in the lower right area.

Select the PuTTY application from the Start menu.
When the program opens, select the Session list item in the upper-left corner of the window.
In the Host Name box, type apps.rutgers.edu (without the quotes), then under Username, enter your NetID and select Connect.t
Click Ok and enter your NetID username/password into the terminal
Snip & Sketch

Snip & Sketch is an easy way to take a screenshot of all or part of your PC screen, add notes, and send or save it. Navigate to the application by searching for "Snip & Sketch" in the Windows Search bar and selecting it, or use the hotkey Windows key + Shift + S. This application has replaced the previous Snipping Tool offered by Microsoft. Though the Snipping Tool remains accessible, Snip & Sketch is generally more user-friendly and the more current software.

When taking a new snip with the hotkey, a notification appears in the bottom-right corner of the screen. This is added to the clipboard and can be pasted into documents or messages, and can be saved by selecting the notification and clicking the Save icon in the top-right corner of the Snip & Sketch window that opens.

More information can be found at Microsoft's Snip & Sketch blog post.

Bluetooth Connectivity

Bluetooth is an open wireless technology for exchanging data over short distances between devices. This creates a personal area network (PAN) with a high level of security. This allows patrons to file-share between computers, use wireless Bluetooth headphones, or connect to their cell phones and other devices if desired. Data transfer is possible; however, Bluetooth data speeds are slow and not recommended for large files. Some of our lab computers support Bluetooth use. Macs and Dell computers in the labs can connect to Bluetooth, while HPs cannot. The following instructions outline the basics of connecting to Bluetooth for the lab's computers:

Bluetooth must be enabled for a device to connect. Before trying to connect any device, check whether the Bluetooth icon is present in the icon tray.

If the icon is absent, you can enable Bluetooth by navigating to Settings > Devices > Bluetooth & other devices > Bluetooth, then turning it on. If the Bluetooth subheading is not present, the machine is likely not compatible with Bluetooth.

Once the Bluetooth icon appears, you can connect a Bluetooth device by tapping the notifications icon in the bottom right of the screen, then tapping Connect.

A sidebar should pop up with options to connect to available Bluetooth devices within range of the computer. It may take a few seconds to find all the devices.
Click the device, then confirm the device you want to connect to via Bluetooth.
" KB0014129 Windows Windows - Task Manager "

The Task Manager displays the applications and processes that are currently running on the computer. The utility is very useful for managing programs when the computer is behaving unexpectedly, or an application is not responding. There are several methods to access the Task Manager, including:

CTRL+SHIFT+ESC.
Right-click on the Windows taskbar > Task Manager.
CTRL+ALT+DELETE > Task Manager.

Once opened, the Task Manager will have several tabs. The Processes tab shows a list of the computer s open applications, and can be expanded with the More details option to include usage information and background processes. It will display each program s status, including whether it recognizes that one is not responding. To close an application that is frozen or not responding, select it and choose End task.





Note: Ending a task will attempt to end all associated processes in that application s process tree. Sometimes, even End Task will not terminate a frozen program. For that, you will need to consult the Background Processes list found under the Processes tab.

The Background processes list under an expanded Processes tab lists all running processes. These include active applications, which are also listed under Apps. The user can end a targeted process associated with an application that is running, not responding, or stopped. Using this method can have unexpected consequences and should be done only as a last resort, after a user is aware that they may lose unsaved changes to open documents. To end a process, select the process from the list and select End task.

" KB0014130 Windows Windows - Temporarily Installing Programs "

Most computing needs can be met with the programs installed on the computer lab machines. However, if a required program is unavailable, users should note that only simple applications, those not requiring administrative privileges, can be easily installed. Complex installations are generally not possible.

If a program cannot be installed, users can check for a portable version. A portable executable placed on a flash drive or other external storage can bypass installation issues and retain user settings.

Note that any programs installed onto a lab machine by a user will be deleted after they log out.

" KB0018465 Zoom Zoom - Enable Webinar license on Zoom Service Account "

Enabling Zoom Webinars for Service Accounts should primarily be done by the EITC group (EI - Telepresence Collaboration assignment group in SN). In urgent cases, a FT that is also a Zoom Admin can add the Webinar by doing the following.

Log in to CAT
Go to Zoom Licenses
Select the Zoom Accounts tab
Search for the name of the Service Account
Click on the number listed under the Webinar Capacity column
Select 1000 for Webinar Capacity and click Save.

Due to the limited quantity of licenses, Webinar 1000 license usage will be reviewed quarterly. Webinar 1000 licenses will be removed to free up the license for others if:

If no webinar has occurred in the last 3 months before
And no events are scheduled for the next 3 months.

No information for the Service Account is lost if the license is removed and re-added at a later date.

Due to the limited number of Webinar licenses, the EI - Telepresence Collaboration group may limit departments to a single Webinar license, assigned to a single Service Account. However, they may sometimes have 2 or more. Guidance on multiple Webinar licenses per department should have the department's local IT deferred to contact the EI - Telepresence Collaboration assignment group in SN.

" KB0014971 Zoom Zoom - General Information "
General Information

Zoom has been launched for Rutgers University guests, faculty, staff, students, and emeriti. Information regarding Rutgers Zoom accounts can be found on the Rutgers IT Zoom Site. You may also use the Rutgers Zoom FAQ, which is user-facing. For a Rutgers user to access Zoom, they will need to activate it. Please reference the knowledge article on creating a Rutgers Zoom account.

Zoom account status in CAT

The CAT tool displays various information about a user's Zoom account, such as whether the user has activated their account and their last login date. Always reference the CAT tool before and after instructing a user to activate their account. An active Zoom will look similar to the following image:





If you are unfamiliar with the CAT tool, reference the CAT getting started documentation.

Logging into Zoom

There are several ways for a user to log in to Zoom. Users may use the Rutgers-specific Zoom page, the generic Zoom Website, or the Zoom desktop application. For assistance with logging in, please refer to the knowledge article on logging in to Rutgers Zoom.

Zoom HIPAA Compliance

Rutgers Zoom is HIPAA compliant.

Zoom Webinar

Zoom Webinar information can be found using the Rutgers IT Zoom Webinar Article.

Departments are typically limited to one Webinar 1000 license per department, and therefore coordination is needed to determine which Service Account holds between local IT and the Telepresence Collaboration group. For Requests for these licenses, the DA should have an incident opened with the EI - Telepresence Collaboration group in ServiceNow.

Meeting 1,000, Webinar 1,000, Webinar 3,000, Webinar 10,000, and Live Streaming requests should fill out the Bookings Calendar in the Rutgers IT Zoom Webinar Article.

Their Webinar/Meeting capacity or Live Stream capacity will only be increased the day before the event, and removed the day after. Webinar 1,000 can remain on a Service Account and are not subject to the 1-day limit, but are periodically checked for active usage.

A separate Events or Sessions license would need to be purchased in advance for an account to use breakout rooms in a Webinar. The Events license is not free (very expensive). The Sessions license is cheaper than the Events license. The Events license cannot be shared between accounts; it is tied to a specific account when purchased. Should go through EI - Telepresence Collaboration to obtain.
General Troubleshooting
If a user cannot see the two preloaded Rutgers backgrounds, please have them update their Zoom client.
Users must be on the same site to schedule a meeting for one another; i.e., if one user has a PHI flag and the other does not, they will not be able to schedule on behalf of one another. This is also the case for setting alternative hosts for further meetings. Both users must be in the PHI instance, or both must be in the non-PHI instance.
"
