Number Category Short description Article body KB0016458 Academic Integrity Turnitin – Account Request – Instructors Only "
If you have used Turnitin’s Feedback Studio in Rutgers Canvas, then you have a Turnitin account. Please reset your Turnitin password on the stand-alone website using the email address associated with your Canvas account.
Faculty may create a stand-alone Turnitin account by signing in with your Rutgers NetID using the link below. If you have used Turnitin previously through a Rutgers learning management system (LMS), such as Canvas, and your official Rutgers email address is different than the email address associated with your user account in Canvas, you may not have access to the same content. Please reset your password using the email address associated with your user account.
Students are not allowed to use standalone accounts, but they can submit their papers through Canvas assignments with Turnitin Plagiarism Review enabled.
Log in to Turnitin with your Rutgers NetID
FAQ
•	Using Turnitin with Canvas as a student
•	Turnitin knowledge articles for instructors
•	How to view my Canvas account settings
" KB0016624 Academic Integrity Turnitin – Canvas Plagiarism Framework for Instructors "
The Canvas Plagiarism Framework (CPF) is an easy-to-use method of obtaining Turnitin Similarity & Originality Reports for submitted assignments in Canvas. Turnitin features are configured via Canvas assignment settings and accessible from within Feedback Studio. In addition to its ease of use, the Canvas Plagiarism Framework offers several advantages over the Turnitin External Tool integration.
•	All access and due date settings are pulled directly from the Canvas assignment settings. This avoids the common Turnitin errors that occur when importing assignments from past courses.
•	Supports Group Assignments.
•	Supports Canvas Peer Review assignments.
•	Multiple submissions are supported, with each submission receiving its own Similarity Report.
•	Re-submissions are permitted after the Due Date.
For more information on the Canvas Plagiarism Framework’s features, check out the full product comparison chart.
To Enable Canvas Plagiarism Framework (Turnitin)
1.	Create a new assignment or go to an existing assignment you wish to enable Turnitin for.
2.	In the assignment settings, select Online as the assignment Submission Type.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Under Online entry options, select the File Uploads and/or Text entry checkbox.
4.	Select Turnitin from the Plagiarism Review drop-down menu.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Customize the Turnitin Plagiarism settings as desired. To learn more about configuring the platform, check out the Turnitin settings documentation.
6.	Make any adjustments to the remaining Canvas assignment settings as desired, including making this a group assignment, requiring Peer Reviews, and setting the access and due dates.
7.	Click Save when done or Save & Publish to make the assignment available to students.
As Canvas may not immediately notify Turnitin that an assignment has been created, we advise waiting 90 seconds between creating the assignment and making the first submission. This will allow Canvas to notify Turnitin that the assignment has been created.
The Similarity Report
Instructors can access the Similarity Reports in either SpeedGrader or Gradebook by clicking the colored icon as indicated in either:
Gradebook
     Error! Filename not specified.

SpeedGrader
     Error! Filename not specified.
More detailed information about reading, filtering, and interpreting the Similarity Report is available in the Canvas Plagiarism Framework Instructor Guide.
If you continue to encounter an issue with the Similarity Report failing to generate, you can select Resubmit to Turnitin from SpeedGrader, which forces the Similarity Report to generate.
If the Show originality report to students option has been enabled, students can view their Originality Report when it is made available by clicking the icon in Gradebook.
     Error! Filename not specified.
Additional Resources:
•	Turnitin Canvas Plagiarism Framework Instructor Guides
•	Turnitin Canvas Plagiarism Framework Student Guides
•	Turnitin's Full Product Comparison Chart
" KB0016583 Academic Integrity Turnitin – Recommended Syllabus Statement "
In coordination with the Office of General Counsel, Rutgers Office of Information Technology advises instructors who use Turnitin for plagiarism detection to include the following statement in their course syllabus:
 
Students agree that, by taking this course, all required papers may be submitted to Turnitin.com (directly or via the learning management system) for textual similarity review and plagiarism detection. All submitted papers will be included as source documents in the Turnitin.com reference database solely for the purpose of detecting plagiarism of such papers. Use of the Turnitin.com service is subject to the Usage Policy posted on the Turnitin.com site.
 
Students who disagree should contact the course instructor immediately.
 
For students who elect not to submit directly to Turnitin, instructors may accept digital copies of the assignment and submit them on the student's behalf via the Turnitin website.
If you have any questions, please contact your LMS Help Desk.
" KB0018308 Accessibility General Support Course Accessibility - Audio/Video (Live Content) "
Auto Captions available
Bronze Level
Most platforms will allow users to enable closed captioning. Below are some tools for auto-captioning videos and conversations in real time. It's important to note these tools are not designed for post-processing editing. It's also important to note that auto-captions are about 80% accurate.
•	How to enable Zoom Auto-captions
•	How to enable WebEx Auto-Captions
•	How to enable MS Teams Auto-Captions
•	Zip Captions | Online - Free
This tool allows you to generate captions from any audio your computer receives. It allows you to stream those captions to audience members.
•	Google Live Caption | Google Chrome - Free
Built into Google Chrome and Chrome Books, you can have any video automatically display captions. See Google's instructions on how to turn on live caption.
•	Live Transcribe | Android - Free
Built into all Android devices, you can instantly get captions on any video or audio from the microphone. This is a great way of getting instant auto-captions for real-time conversations
•	iOS Live Captions | iPhones/iOS devices - Free
With this, you can get real-time auto-captioning of spoken text, as well as any video displayed on your phone.
•	MacOS Live Captions | MacOS devices- Free
It provides real-time auto-captions for any audio in any app, including Facetime, Zoom, or videos played in your browser.
•	Windows Live Captions | Windows - Free
Provides real-time auto-captioning for any video played on your Windows device.
•	Otter Ai | Free- with paid upgrades
Provides a real-time transcript while recording the audio. It allows you to go back and review the transcript. Otter provides speaker identification, post-recording outlines/summaries, and an ability to collaborate with others.
Instructor created videos
Silver Level
It's important to remember that individuals who are blind will not be able to see the content shown on your screen. Thus, vocalizing anything you show is important, whether images or written text.
Other important considerations:
•	Avoid using words like "this" or "that", which refer to what is visually being shown without detail.
•	When demonstrating how to perform functions, avoid saying things like "click here". Instead, describe what you are doing, i.e. "click on the home button", "click on the icon that says 'remove duplicates'", etc.
•	Avoid referring to things by color, i.e. "the green bar".
•	Providing PowerPoints and other presented materials beforehand allows the student to review them before class.
Professional Caption/ASL interpreter
All items should have a professional Caption/ASL interpreter available.
Gold Level
If you have a student with a disability in your class who is approved for captioning, Rutgers Access and Disability Resources (RADR) should have contacted you. If a student has made themselves known to you, and you have not heard from RADR, have that student reach out to their coordinator to ensure they submit all of the appropriate requests.
It's important to note that in some cases, the captions may be viewed by the student through a third-party site and not directly through your video conferencing tool. If you do not see the professional captions appear, this may be the reason.
" KB0018307 Accessibility General Support Course Accessibility - Audio/Video (Prerecorded) "
All video content is in Kaltura
Bronze Level
We recommend that all your Video Content within Canvas be uploaded to Kaltura first. This provides several benefits:
•	It creates automated captions for students who may need captioning
•	It allows disability services to request professional captioning on that video, should there be a student with a disability in your class, without you needing to do any additional work
Learn more about Kaltura and how to upload videos.
Once uploaded to Kaltura, we recommend you embed those videos directly into Canvas. Any changes to those videos, such as adding professional captions, will automatically be reflected in the videos in Canvas.
Auto-captions are available with the ability to turn on/off
Bronze Level
It's important to note that auto-captions are about 70-80% accurate and may not meet the needs of students with disabilities. Automated captions are a minimum requirement for all Rutgers courses. The best practice however (the Gold Standard) is to have professional captioning, or instructor reviewed and edited captioning on all videos.
If you are utilizing a third-party video that you cannot download and utilize Kaltura with, you must check that the video has auto-captions available. The video player should allow the user to turn on and off those captions at a minimum. On some platforms like YouTube, you can filter your search results by those videos with captions.
If you are utilizing a YouTube video, Kaltura has the ability to upload that YouTube video to Kaltura. It is better to upload those items to Kaltura rather than copy and paste a YouTube link into your course.
Instructor-created videos have all items described
Silver Level
In many cases, you may create content by voicing over PowerPoints or using a service like WeVideo to create recorded lecture material. It's important to remember that individuals who are blind will not be able to see the content shown on their screen in a video format. Thus, it's important to vocalize anything you show, whether images or written text.
Other important considerations:
•	Avoid using words like "this" or "that", that refer to what is visually being shown without detail.
•	When demonstrating how to perform functions, avoid saying things like "click here". Instead, describe what you are doing, i.e, click on the home button, click on the icon that says 'remove duplicates', etc.
•	Avoid referring to things by color, i.e., "the green bar".
All items should have professional captioning done
Gold Level
If you have a student with a disability in your class who is approved for captioning, Rutgers Access and Disability Resources (RADR) should have contacted you. If a student has made themselves known to you, and you have not heard from RADR, have that student reach out to their coordinator to ensure they submit all of the appropriate requests.
It's important to note that videos can take up to 2 weeks to caption. Having your videos in Kaltura, along with a list of any third-party video sources you might be using, will help RADR submit those items to be captioned.
Items should have extended audio descriptions available
Gold Level
If you have a student who is blind in your course, videos may require audio descriptions. This can take 3-4 weeks and sometimes longer, depending on the length of the video. Having your videos in Kaltura, along with a list of any third-party video sources you might be using, will help RADR submit those items to be audio-described.
" KB0018310 Accessibility General Support Course Accessibility - Document Accessibility "
Meaningful heading structure
Bronze Level
Heading structures with a distinct visual style help individuals with visual impairments understand how a document is organized. Appropriate headings are secondary navigation tools that help readers skim and scan the document.
Headings should fit an outline. Making text larger or bolder does not make it a heading in Word.
To Add headings to a document
Use the built-in heading styles to apply uniform heading structure to Word documents.
Word Styles contain preconfigured headings understood by assistive technology (e.g., Heading 1- Heading 6). These headings are available under the Styles section in the Home tab of the Ribbon.
Apply the “Heading 1” style for the main heading and “Heading 2” for sub-headings. Additional organization and division of topics should use the appropriate head style: “Heading 3,” “Heading 4,” etc., without going past "Heading 6." 
Error! Filename not specified.
Use the Home tab’s Styles menu to add heading styles.
Verify headings
Every heading in a document can be verified using the Navigation Pane, located in the Show group on the View tab of the Ribbon.
This pane also allows users to navigate to any section of the document by clicking on the corresponding heading. 
Error! Filename not specified.
Use the View tab to add navigation panes.
No use of color or shape to identify meaning
Bronze Level
Do not use color or shapes to identify meaning, as someone with color blindness or someone with low vision might be unable to distinguish between the two options. For example, rather than using a green dot 🟢 to signify something is Open, you can write "Open."
Meaningful/Descriptive Links
Bronze Level
Hyperlink text must be clear and meaningful, with enough contextual information that a user would understand the link’s destination.
You shouldn’t use “click here,” “read more,” and “learn more” as the only words linked.
•	Do: “Read our strategic plan.”
•	Don't: “Click here for our strategic plan.”
Similarly, don’t use the same link language for two different destinations. For example, if “Contact Us” is listed as a link twice on the same page, it should take users to the same place.
Accessible Tables
Bronze Level
Microsoft products can only produce simple tables, which only have 1 heading row and 1 heading column at max. There are several steps to creating an accessible table:
1.	Should this be a table?
If your table should actually be a list, it is better to make that a bulleted list rather than using a table format. Additionally, if you are using a table for styling purposes, like creating 2 columns of text, it's better to use the Microsoft 'Column' option to create those columns.
2.	Do I need to simplify the table?
If you have a complex table, with nested content, and multiple heading rows or columns, you will need to break those tables into smaller ones to allow the screen reader to read it correctly.
3.	Designate a heading row.
The "Table Style Options" section of the ribbon on the Table Tools contextual tab lets you indicate that your data has a header row. 
Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Repeat Column headings
Column headings should be repeated at the top of a table if the table spans multiple pages.
To repeat the column headings: 
o	Right-click the table, and then select Table Properties.
o	In the "Table Properties" dialog box, select the Row tab.
o	In the "Options" group, ensure the "Repeat as header" row at the top of each page is checked.
o	Uncheck the box next to Allow row to break across pages.
o	Select OK to accept the changes.
5.	Add alternative text to the table.
To add alternative text for tables, use the Alt Text tab of the "Table Properties" dialog box. You can do this by right-clicking on the table, selecting Table Properties, and then selecting the Alt-Text tab.  
Error! Filename not specified.
Use of PowerPoint (PPT) template layouts only
Bronze Level
PowerPoint has several built-in layouts: A title slide, a Title with one content section, a Title with two content areas, etc.
Error! Filename not specified.
Using these layouts will ensure that your PowerPoints have the correct reading order and titles for every slide and that there are no floating objects that might be difficult for a screen reader to access.
If you are unsure of how to make accessible PowerPoints, avoid adding floating textboxes or floating images (items not part of the standard layout). Additionally, avoid using the blank slide unless it is truly a blank slide.
Clean copies of printed/scanned materials
Provide clean copies of printed/scanned materials. This includes handouts, course reserves, course packs, etc.
Bronze Level
Avoid using content that is smudged, have words cut off, or is difficult for you to read. If you have a hard time reading it, someone with low vision or who is blind will be unable to read it.
Searchable PDFs only
Bronze Level
Searchable PDFs are those in which the text is rendered as actual text and not images. A simple way of knowing if this is the case is by seeing if you can highlight the text. If you cannot, Adobe Acrobat has an OCR function that allows you to digitize that PDF into a searchable PDF. Additionally, you can use tools like Sensus Access to convert your document.
Color contrast 
Silver Level
For any content you create, you must run the Accessibility Checker in Word.
One of the things it will identify is color contrast issues in the text you wrote. It will also suggest font color changes to help meet guidelines.
Error! Filename not specified.
Alternative formats available
Gold Level
If you have a student who is blind in your class or a student who needs an alternative format for their course materials, you should speak with the student's coordinator to better understand those needs.
In some cases, as with those students who are blind, Rutgers Access and Disability Resources will reach out to you ahead of time to collect your course content and assist with making those items accessible. There are a few things that can significantly help ensure students have access to your content at the same time as the class:
•	Have your syllabus complete before the start of the semester, and include any required readings, including textbook information.
•	Have your content ready at least 2 weeks before the class you intend on showing it.
•	Alt-text any images you have in any of the documents you use. You are the content expert, and knowing what those images represent is difficult for whoever may remediate your document.
High-contrast text
Use high-contrast text (e.g., black text on a white background). Use an 11-point or larger font size.
Gold Level
If you have a student with low vision, you may see that they are approved for enlarged font. The Letter of Accommodation will typically indicate the font size (i.e., 14pt font). For any course documents you create, whether that be PowerPoint or Word handouts (like review sheets), you should consider:
•	Make sure to use high-contrast foreground and background colors. These color combinations include White and Black (i.e., black text on a white background or white text on a black background), Black and Yellow, and Blue and Yellow.
•	Ensuring your font size is minimally the size indicated on the Letter of Accommodation. If none is listed, using 14pt font should be your standard. If the font size becomes too big for a PowerPoint, consider making a Word document with the equivalent information as the PPT the student can follow.
" KB0018314 Accessibility General Support Course Accessibility - Images "
Instructor created content
All instructor-created content must have a useful alt text for all images.
Bronze Level
Alternative text for images, also known as alt text, describes an image read by assistive technology. It also helps search engines understand the content of an image, which can improve SEO ( search engine optimization).
The alt text should convey the purpose and function of the non-text content. This means the same image may have different alt text depending on its context and purpose. For example, an image used for marketing will have different alt text than the same image used for training purposes.
Alt text is more of an art than a science. The only "wrong" is not including alt text where needed. Considering alt text on a scale of "good" versus "better," will you help craft more useful alt text.
How to add an alternative text to:
•	A Microsoft Word or PowerPoint file
•	A Google Document or Presentation
General Guidelines
•	Keep the alt text concise (no more than 10-15 words).
•	If the image contains words, include the words in the alt text.
•	If the image is used as a link or control, the alt text should help form the link text or control label.
•	If the alt text would be redundant to neighboring text, treat the image as if it is decorative.
Training Workshop
For general information on accessibility training, please visit the Rutgers Digital Accessibility website.
Student created content
Students are provided with instructions/expectations on how to add alt text to the content they create.
Silver Level
Faculty may often use third-party software that allows students to create content in discussion forums, messages, etc. It's important that you provide students with directions on how to make their content accessible.
Example 1: Canvas Discussions
1.	Click on the image dropdown, and then Upload Image. 

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	After uploading your image, scroll down and fill in the Alt Text box under Attributes.

Error! Filename not specified.
Example 2: No Alt-text option available
In some applications, there may not be a way to add an alt-text to an image. In these cases, it is best practice to put an image description below the image.
Error! Filename not specified.
Image Caption: An Organization hierarchy chart showing the Office of IT on top, with 3 departments reporting to it: Enterprise Application Services, Enterprise Delivery Services, Infrastructure, and Security.
Long descriptions
Long descriptions are provided for items where alt-text is not useable.
Gold Level
In some cases, a short alt-text is not enough information to convey the image's meaning.
Example:
Error! Filename not specified.
Figure 1-1 Median net worth by race, 2001 (assets minus debts)
Image Description: The bar chart above is represented by the data below, with "Years" along the y-axis and Dollars along the x-axis.
Race	1998	2001
White People	$103,400	$120,900
People of Color	$17,900	$17,100
 
Alternative resources
Alternative resources are provided where the long description is not useable.
Gold Level
In some cases, you may need to work with your office of disability services to provide items in alternate ways, such as embossed images, as seen in the example below.
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0018359 Accessibility General Support Course Accessibility - Managing PDFs "
With all of your PDFs, you should follow our PDF workflow: 
1.	Remove any unused PDFs from your course. TidyUp is an excellent tool for doing this.
2.	Reorganize your site. For those documents that you'd like to keep but are for archival purposes only, you should move them to a folder clearly marked "Archived."
3.	Reformat your PDF. If your document was originally a Word or PowerPoint file, we recommend uploading that version instead of the PDF. You can upload read-only files to ensure the content remains the same. We recommend converting PDFs that could be webforms or module pages to webforms/html pages.
4.	Remediate the remainder. For those PDFs that genuinely need to be PDFs, we recommend you utilize tools like SensusAccess to provide text-based documents to your students.
" KB0018313 Accessibility General Support Course Accessibility - Reviewing Current Courses "
We recommend following the steps outlined below to help you improve the accessibility of your courses:
1.	Run CidiLabs Tidy Up. 
o	TidyUp scans the Canvas course for unused pages and unlinked files and removes them from the course.
o	Access TidyUp through Rutgers Canvas by enabling it in the course navigation.
2.	Review course content through Ally Course Accessibility Report.
o	Ally will help you gain detailed insight into the accessibility of your course content, provide guidance on how to remediate inaccessible components of your content, and provide students with a range of alternative formats.
o	You can access the Course Accessibility Report through the course navigation menu on the left side of your course. If you do not see the Accessibility Report available, you can enable it via your course navigation settings.
3.	Determine your priorities.
If you have already developed materials for your course, we recommend choosing one of the options below as a starting point: 
o	Start with your syllabus 
	Making your syllabus accessible is a great place to start on making your course more accessible as it is one of the first documents your students will be accessing and will get you familiar with the document remediation process.
	Tools such as Microsoft Word and PowerPoint have accessibility checkers in their software that point out which sections of your document need remediation. Some common accessibility issues include incorrect text headers, color contrast issues, and missing alt text on images. 
	Rutgers IT Document Accessibility Guide
	Improving Microsoft Documents with Accessibility Checker
o	Use the Web Content Helper to help prioritize based on your course’s unique context. 
	This tool will help you prioritize the remediation changes that will have the most impact on students in your class. Depending on how you respond to the questions, the Web Content Helper will identify which level of consideration should be taken for your course.
	The base-level for all courses is our Bronze Model, with increasing levels of accessibility/usability thresholds according to factors like class size and enrollment of students with disabilities.
	The goal is to provide you with a road map of the items that are going to make the most impact in your course as you work overtime to improve the accessibility of your course.
o	Use the Ally Course Report to see your course’s accessibility score and set a manageable goal, such as raising your overall score by 10%. 
	The Ally Course Accessibility Report can help you determine a pathway to a more accessible course that works for you. The report separates content into two groups, “content with the easiest issues to fix” and “low scoring content.” 
	Remediating content with the easiest issues to fix is a good way to quickly fix issues such as missing alt text on images.
	Going after the lowest-scoring content will have the most impact on raising your course’s overall accessibility score.
	It’s a good idea to set a goal of raising your overall course accessibility by 10% per semester. The most important thing is to begin working accessibility into your course design process in a consistent, ongoing way.
Other considerations
As you remediate your course files, here are other things you should consider.
Resource Selection
Some scanned documents can be too difficult to read. Scanned documents with text cut off, smudges, faded writing, etc., may not be feasible to make into an accessible document. You should review your course resources to make sure that the resources provided are legible.
Use the Rutgers Library Academic Search Premier to find updated and legible resources. Work with your content area librarian to locate accessible versions of any other resources you may need.
Review Course Technologies
When utilizing course technologies, prioritize using native Canvas features like Canvas Discussions, Quizzes, and Modules, as they are accessible to students. While third-party external tools may offer additional features, they can create inaccessible experiences for some students, although some tools have or are being updated to include accessibility options.
PDFs
With all of your PDFs, you should follow our PDF workflow:
1.	Remove any unused PDFS from your course. TidyUp is an excellent tool for doing this.
2.	If you would like to keep your unused PDF documents for archival purposes, please move them to a separate sandbox course clearly marked Archived.
3.	If your document was originally a Word or PPT file, upload the original version of the document instead of the PDF. You can upload read-only files to ensure the content remains the same. If possible, please convert PDF files to module pages. It is easier for students who are using screen readers to navigate pages than it is for students who are using attached files.
4.	For those PDFs that genuinely need to be PDFs, we recommend you utilize SensusAccess to provide text-based documents to your students.
" KB0019583 Accessibility General Support Learning paths in Deque University "
Members of the Rutgers Community can join predefined learning paths in Deque University. These provide curated training for different roles and user types.
Signing up for Deque University
For new users, visit our Deque landing page and click Sign Up. Select Deque University in the options provided. 
Learning Paths Available
Visit our website to enroll in a learning path. Departments can also create a group and enroll multiple users.
Document Accessibility
•	Fast Track for PDF Creators
•	Fast Track for Microsoft Office
•	Basic Web and Document Accessibility for Content Contributors
Web Accessibility
•	Fast Track for Web Developers, Part 1: Core Techniques
•	Fast Track for Web Developers, Part 2: Advanced Techniques
•	Images, SVG, and Canvas
•	Responsive Design and Zoom
•	Visual Design and Colors (WCAG 2.1)
•	Usability Testing for Accessibility
Web Developers 
•	Fast Track for Web Developers, Part 1: Core Techniques
•	Fast Track for Web Developers, Part 2: Advanced Technique 
•	Designing an Accessible User Experience
•	Semantic Structure and Navigation (with WCAG 2.2 updates)
•	Images, SVG, and Canvas
•	Responsive Design and Zoom
•	Visual Design and Colors (WCAG 2.1)
•	Usability Testing for Accessibility
•	Web Accessibility Testing: Basic Methods and Tools
•	Web Accessibility Testing: Screen Readers
Customer Service Roles
•	Serving Customers with Disabilities
•	Disability Etiquette Basics
•	Effective Communication, Part 1: Communicating in Person
•	Effective Communication, Part 2: Remote Communication
•	Accessibility Fundamentals – Disabilities, Guidelines, and Laws
" KB0018311 Accessibility General Support Minimum Course Accessibility Guidelines "
We've developed a list of items to help you create more accessible courses. It's important to note that document and digital accessibility is only a small piece of making your course accessible. We recommend you read the following pages to help walk you through other important information you should know:
•	Accessible Design Guide - This guide will inform you about important design choices when making content that will significantly benefit your students. It will also give you essential information about how to structure/conduct your lectures.
•	Hosting Accessible Trainings - While this was written with workshops in mind, this will give you great insight into best teaching practices.
Overview of the standards
To make accessibility more achievable and reflect the students in your class being able to benefit the most, we've developed a good, better, best model.
Bronze Level
In this model, the Bronze level is the minimum level of accessibility that we would like all courses to reach. It is based on the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) version 2.1 Level A. This is the minimum level countries/organizations could choose to adopt. Here in the U.S., the DOJ has adopted Level AA, and thus, courses in this category do not meet the full letter of the law for course accessibility.
This level is meant to provide you with an achievable first step and allow an easy pathway to Silver (based mostly on WCAG 2.1 AA). Bronze is a baseline for courses and is not intended to be your final outcome.
Silver Level
For courses above a certain enrollment, we ask all those courses to achieve a Silver level. This was based on WCAG 2.1 AA but also considers that certain aspects of WCAG may be more difficult for faculty to achieve without help/intervention from others on campus, i.e., the Office of Disability Services (ODS).
The items in this category are meant to be easily achievable given the foundation you have laid from the bronze level, and it also sets up departments like ODS and Rutgers Access and Disability Services to easily provide accommodations/support for students needing accommodations.
Gold Level
Any course with a student with a disability approved for accommodations falls into this level. This level fully conforms to WCAG 2.1 AA and details offices you should work with to achieve certain accommodations (like ASL Interpreters).
Considerations on how to use these levels
Ideally, this should be a gradient of colors instead of three distinct colors side by side. We've created a form that allows you to determine your minimum base level and then adds only those specific guidelines that apply to your course. For example, if you have a student with a disability, and that student is approved for an ASL interpreter, we can make general assumptions about the nature of their disability. Knowing this, we will provide you with Silver level as your base level, and for all those that apply to this student, we'll provide you with Gold level items. To put it into practice, you'll see items about professional video captioning (another accommodation they have) but not audio descriptions, as this student is likely a sighted student and doesn't require audio descriptions.
The goal is to provide you a road map of the items that are going to make the most impact in your course as you work overtime to improve the accessibility of your course.
" KB0012437 Administrative and Business Accessing W2 form "
To access your W2 form, please follow these instructions:
1.	Visit my.rutgers.edu and click Login at the top right-hand corner.
2.	Log in with your NetID and NetID password.
3.	In the "My Paycheck" widget in the dashboard, please click View W-2.
4.	Click Year End Form for the year that you would like to view.
5.	Enter the last 4 digits of your social security number and click Submit.
6.	Your W2 form should be displayed on the screen.
If you do not see your W2 you may need to enable popups, as the browser you are using may block the popup automatically. To do this please reference the appropriate link to enable popups for your browser so that you can view your W2.
•	Chrome: Instructions on how to turn popups on/off for Chrome.
•	Firefox: Instructions on how to turn popups on/off for Firefox.
•	Safari: Instructions on how to turn popups on/off for Firefox.
If you no longer have an active role with the University, please contact OneSource at 732-745-SERV (7378) for assistance regarding receiving your W2.  
" KB0012715 Administrative and Business How to view your paychecks "
1.	Navigate to myRutgers and log in using your Rutgers NetID and NetID password.
2.	In the "My Paycheck" widget in the dashboard, click on View paycheck.
3.	Find your associated check and click View paycheck.
Make sure that popups have been enabled for my.rutgers.edu on your browser as this may give you difficulties with viewing your paycheck. Instructions for enabling popups for most common browsers are below:
•	Chrome: Instructions on how to turn popups on/off for Chrome.
•	Firefox: Instructions on how to turn popups on/off for Firefox.
•	Safari: Instructions on how to turn popups on/off for Safari.
" KB0019161 Administrative and Business Managing personal information in the Rutgers directory "
The Rutgers directory displays certain information by default for students, faculty, and staff. Depending on your role at the university, the process for requesting changes to what appears in the directory varies.
For Students   
Students can choose to hide their email address, school, major, or minor through the Personal Contact Information webpage: 
1.	Navigate to personalinfo.rutgers.edu.
2.	Log in with your NetID and password.
3.	Select the Directory Listing tab.
4.	Check the boxes of what you would like displayed in the online directory: 
1.	Official Rutgers Email
2.	School
3.	Major
4.	Minor
5.	Graduation Year
5.	Click Submit to save your changes.  
Students can submit a formal request through the Registrar’s office to restrict the release of directory information. Please refer to the Directory Information Exclusion Form available on the Scarlet Hub.  
Please note: Rutgers Health students should have their dean reach out to the Office of Information Technology Help Desk to request a restriction of the release of directory information.  
For Employees  
The university includes information about employees in the Rutgers online directory to support university business and operations. Rutgers employees can manage specific visibility settings for their information, such as hiding their email address from external searches, through the Personal Contact Information webpage:
1.	Navigate to personalinfo.rutgers.edu.
2.	Log in with your NetID and password.
3.	Select the Directory Listing option. 
4.	Check the box labeled "Hide my Email address from outside of the Rutgers community." 
5.	Click Submit to save your changes. 
If there are concerns about the remaining information displayed in the online directory, Rutgers employees can have their department head or dean contact the Office of Information Technology Help Desk. 
For Guests
Guests should work with their sponsors and the Office of Information Technology Help Desk for questions or concerns about information displayed in the online directory. 
" KB0012671 Administrative and Business Setting up payroll direct deposit "
Method 1
1.	Login to MyRutgers and navigate to the My Dashboard tab.
2.	Click on the Direct Deposit/Paycheck icon under the My Paycheck Widget.
3.	You will be redirected to an external page.
4.	Click Add Account.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Verify your SSN, and on the following page fill out the requested information regarding your bank account: Routing number, account number, account type, deposit type, and deposit order.

Error! Filename not specified.
Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Hit Submit to complete direct deposit setup.
Method 2
1.	Login to MyRutgers and navigate to the Apps tab.
2.	Utilize the Search Apps tool in the upper right-hand corner.
3.	Search and select Direct Deposit / Pay Card Set-Up.
4.	Click Add Account.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Verify your SSN, and on the following page fill out the requested information regarding your bank account: Routing number, account number, account type, deposit type, and deposit order.

Error! Filename not specified.
Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Hit Submit to complete direct deposit setup.
Method 3
Payroll users who do not have access to establish direct deposit online may download the Direct Deposit form and return it to the address listed on the form once it's completed.
Updating Direct Deposit
To change your direct deposit to another account, add the new account before deleting the old one. There must always be one direct deposit account with a Deposit Type listed as “Balance”. 
To remove an old account, you can click Delete in the row corresponding to that account, provided another account has it's Deposit Type listed as “Balance”. 
" KB0018063 Adobe Adobe Express Add-ons
Add-ons are not allowed to be downloaded or installed for Adobe Express. 
KB0018009 Adobe Discontinuation of Adobe Creative Cloud Synced files "
On October 1, 2024, Adobe discontinued the Creative Cloud Files sync service. Rutgers did not decide this change. This service enables people to save files on their local devices in a folder called Creative Cloud Files. The contents of this folder could be synced (copied) to your cloud storage on Creative Cloud. These files can be accessed locally on your device through the folder named Creative Cloud Files or through the Creative Cloud website under Synced files located within the Launch More menu.
What happened?
After Synced files were discontinued, Creative Cloud file syncing was no longer supported as an option. Adobe also removed the Synced files section on the Creative Cloud website and permanently deleted the assets within the cloud storage folder Synced files. 
Additional information
All assets in your Creative Cloud Files folder will remain intact on your local device and will not be deleted from there. However, sharing links to these files will no longer work. You may choose to leave the assets in the Creative Cloud Files folder, or you can choose to move them to other cloud storage options. 
Adobe continues to offer and support cloud storage and syncing across Creative Cloud with Cloud Documents and Creative Cloud Libraries. This change impacts none of these cloud storage solutions.
Your local devices' Creative Cloud Files folder will be visible and retain any files you have previously synced. You can then rename the folder as you see fit.
For additional assistance, please contact the OIT Help Desk. 
" KB0013689 Adobe Creative Cloud Adobe account audits "
Who can have an Adobe Creative Cloud account?
According to the Office of Information Technology guidelines, only the following classes of people are eligible to have Adobe accounts:
•	Current employees of Rutgers University
•	Current students
•	Professor Emeritus
•	Guests: individuals who are conducting University business and are directly associated with the University, but are not officially on the University's payroll. For example, visiting professors/scholars, members of auxiliary groups, and others who are working on University business or affiliated with the University.
The following groups of people are not automatically eligible to Adobe accounts:
•	Former employees (including teaching/graduate assistants who may still be students but are not actively working for Rutgers)
•	Employees of other organizations who are performing work at Rutgers
•	Alumni
•	Retirees
Any of the above may be eligible for a guest account if a department or division of Rutgers is willing to sponsor them. Please see the Guest Account page for further information.
Recently hired employees who have not yet been added to the payroll system and therefore have not been assigned a Faculty or Staff role may have their department's payroll person use the Early Employee NetID form to request an early role.
How can I keep my Adobe account?
We determine which accounts should be closed by comparing Adobe accounts with the active roles (e.g., Faculty, Staff) of usernames listed in the University's Open Registry (OR) service, which serves as the basis for the Rutgers Online Directory. The OR may have some information that requires correction.
Current Employees
You may not be listed in the OR as a current employee. To check this, go to the Search for People tool and search for your name. Review each result if you get more than one. If your name does not appear, contact your department's Human Resources person.
When your entry appears, review the information there. If it is incorrect, contact your department's Human Resources person.
After your department’s Human Resources person has corrected your record, your department’s Rutgers Delegated Administrator can verify that your account is no longer subject to closure.
Students
You may not be listed in the OR as a current student. To check this, go to the Search for People tool and search for your name. Review each result if you get more than one. If your name does not appear, inquire about your registration via One Stop.
When your entry appears, review the information there. If it is incorrect, please inquire about your registration via One Stop.
Guests
If you are affiliated with Rutgers but not employed full-time by the university, you may request a guest account. Have a sponsor from the department you are working with visit the Guest Account site and submit a request on your behalf, which will be sent to our Accounts Office for processing.
Every year, you must renew your guest account. You will be notified when the time to renew your account arrives (30 days prior to the expiration of the account).
Your Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator can assist your sponsor with submitting a Guest Account request and creating your Adobe account, if necessary.
Others
If you do not fit into any of the above categories, you may want to try contacting a department at Rutgers related to your work and ask if they would be willing to sponsor a Guest account for you.
We have no mechanism in place for individuals who are no longer associated with Rutgers to pay a fee and thus retain their accounts. These individuals should be able to pay for a full account on their own and transfer their data before losing access to their account.
What is the typical account audit timeline?
Once an account is found to be ineligible for Adobe:
•	On day one, i.e., the same day, it is found to be ineligible: The account is sent an email notification.
•	On day seven, i.e., approximately one week later: The account is locked out of Adobe.
•	On day thirty-five, i.e., approximately 5 weeks later: The account is deleted from Adobe.
Note: If the account is found to be eligible for Adobe at any time before deletion, it will be removed from the audit.
What should I do before the account is closed?
If you are about to lose your Adobe account, you may want to take the following steps.
•	Contact the IT staff in your department to determine the correct protocol for the data (files) in your account.
•	You will lose access to your Adobe files once your account is deleted, so it's recommended that you save them to an alternative location. Adobe has instructions on how to manually transfer your data, which must be done before losing access to your Rutgers Adobe account. Contact your local IT staff to assist with this process.
What happens after the account is closed?
After your account is closed, you will lose access to your Adobe account.
Approximately 4 weeks after your account is closed, your Adobe account will be deleted.
When an account is deleted, you will no longer be able to access Adobe services
For further assistance
If you have questions about any of the above, you can send an email to help@oit.rutgers.edu or contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0016226 Adobe Creative Cloud Adobe Creative Cloud Storage Migration "
If you need to transfer some of your data or you are losing access to your Rutgers Adobe Creative Cloud account, you should first check with the IT staff in your department to determine the correct protocol for the data in your account.
To migrate any of your data to another Creative Cloud account, follow Adobe's instructions on how to manually transfer your data. This must be done before losing access to your Rutgers Adobe account. Contact your Departmental IT staff if you need assistance with this process.
" KB0012746 Adobe Creative Cloud Can I deploy Adobe CC in my computer lab? "
Yes, email software@rutgers.edu to request access to the "Deployment Administrator" and "Support Administrator" roles within the Adobe console. You may also review the Adobe documentation on Shared Device Licensing and Deployment. 
" KB0012744 Adobe Creative Cloud Can I use Adobe cloud storage to host protected data? "
No. Adobe Creative Cloud Storage cannot be used for critical or restricted data as defined by Rutgers’ Information Classification Policy. Review Rutgers' guide regarding alternate storage options.
" KB0014572 Adobe Creative Cloud How can I purchase Adobe Captivate? "
The Adobe Creative Cloud package through the Rutgers Software Portal does not include Adobe Captivate.
Anyone interested in purchasing Adobe Captivate can contact ruadobe@cdwg.com for a quote and instructions on how to proceed.
" KB0018627 Adobe Creative Cloud How can I purchase Adobe Frame.io? "
The Adobe Creative Cloud package through the Rutgers Software Portal does not include Adobe Frame.io.
Anyone interested in purchasing Adobe Frame.io for 15 users or fewer, review the options for Free, Pro, and Team accounts. If you are looking to purchase an Enterprise plan for more than 15 users, contact coreyg@adobe.com for a quote and instructions on how to proceed.
" KB0013336 Adobe Creative Cloud How do I access Adobe Sign? "
Adobe has separated Adobe Sign into an independent product. It is not included in the University's license agreement for Adobe Creative Cloud.
However, the university has an enterprise agreement for DocuSign and recommends utilizing this free tool.
Anyone still interested in purchasing Adobe Sign can contact ruadobe@cdwg.com for a quote and instructions on how to proceed. Be advised that Adobe Sign has not been certified for use with protected or restricted data types. 
" KB0018404 Adobe Creative Cloud How do I add a font to my Adobe account? "
Custom fonts are not supported on Rutgers Adobe accounts due to challenges associated with licensing custom fonts, monitoring access, and their use across Rutgers. 
" KB0012551 Adobe Creative Cloud How to create your Adobe account and download Adobe Creative Cloud apps "
For users with existing Adobe Creative Cloud accounts
You must create a new account tied to your Rutgers identity and authenticate it with your NetID and password. You can find directions to activate your Rutgers Adobe Creative Cloud account below. If you have a personal account using your Rutgers email in the format netid@rutgers.edu, you will have the option to log in with your personal account or with your Rutgers NetID and password. 
Activating Adobe for students, faculty, staff, and guests
1.	Go to the Service Activation page. 
2.	Log in with your NetID and NetID password.
3.	After logging in, scroll down to the Adobe box and click Activate Service. You'll then see the confirmation message below. 

Error! Filename not specified.
Note that it may take minutes or even hours to fully provision your Adobe license once requested. This is based on the load at the Adobe provisioning host.
Downloading Adobe Creative Cloud
1.	Go to the Adobe Creative Cloud page.
2.	In the email address box, enter your email in the specific format: netid@rutgers.edu and select Continue.
3.	If you previously had an Adobe account, you may need to sign out and sign back in to access your new applications.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	If you have a personal Adobe account using your netid@rutgers.edu email address, you will see a prompt asking you to choose your Personal Account or Company or School Account. Choose Company or School Account. If you do not have a personal account using your Rutgers email, you will not see this prompt. Instead, you will be prompted to log in with your NetID.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	After logging in with your NetID and NetID password, you will be directed to your Adobe home page. If you see a box that says, "You may need permission from your IT administrator to use this app or service," select OK.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	From this page, you can click Download on the Creative Cloud Desktop application. Once installed, it will allow you to download any of the included apps from a central desktop app, or you can search for and download a specific Adobe application by selecting Browse all apps.
If you are a staff or faculty member and encounter issues installing the Adobe Creative Cloud applications on your Rutgers-managed device, contact your department or unit IT.
You can find detailed information on downloading Adobe Creative Cloud desktop applications on the Download Adobe Creative Cloud apps page from Adobe. 
" KB0012740 Adobe Creative Cloud I am a student. What happens to my access when I graduate or leave the university? "
Students, faculty, and staff cannot access Adobe applications and storage when their account is deactivated. 
Before leaving the university and losing access to your account, follow Adobe's instructions on how to manually transfer your data to a personal account. 
 
" KB0012739 Adobe Creative Cloud "I completed the sign-up process for Adobe Creative Cloud, but the software is not yet available." "
It may take minutes or even hours to fully provision your Adobe license once requested. This is based on the load at the Adobe provisioning host. If you have waited at least 2 hours after activating, try to log in again on the Adobe Creative Cloud website.
" KB0012750 Adobe Creative Cloud On how many computers can I install my Adobe Creative Cloud applications? "
Your individual license allows you to install Adobe apps on more than one computer, enabling you to sign in (activate) on multiple devices. However, you can only use it on one computer at a time. Review Adobe's guide on using multiple devices.
" KB0013732 Adobe Creative Cloud Signing out of Adobe CC and back in with your Rutgers account "
To sign out of Adobe CC, follow the steps below.
1.	Navigate to the menu bar on any Adobe CC application, located at the top left of your display screen, and select Help > Sign Out.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	After selecting "Sign Out," a dialogue box will display. Navigate down and click Sign Out.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	To log in using your Rutgers account, go to accounts.adobe.com. Enter your NetID@rutgers.edu and click Continue

. Error! Filename not specified.
4.	You will now be prompted to log in with your NetID and password, and then directed to your Adobe home page. 
Note: If you see a box that says, “You may need permission from your IT administrator to use this app or service,” select OK.
" KB0013591 Adobe Creative Cloud Troubleshooting Adobe Issues "
Issues
•	User is unable to access any of the apps in Adobe Creative Suite.
•	User is prompted to pay a fee to use the applications, or free trial message is shown
•	User has an expiring paid Adobe license and wants to renew it
•	Error Message "You don't have access to manage apps, permission from your IT administrator may be required to enable apps management"
Troubleshooting Logins
1.	Log in to CAT and search for user’s NetID.
2.	Confirm under the Adobe section their account status.
If the account displays no info in CAT, they need to follow the steps on How to create your Adobe account and download Adobe Creative Cloud apps and then log in using their NetID@rutgers.edu email address.
Status will show as Active to indicate they signed up for a Rutgers Adobe account correctly.
Error! Filename not specified.
•	If the account is active, the user is most likely not using their NetID@rutgers.edu email address to login.
•	Please confirm that the user is logging into the Adobe software with their NetID@rutgers.edu. They can do this by clicking the Adobe icon in the top right corner to view their name and login email. Also verify on their account that the organization's name is listed as Rutgers.
•	They may want to try an alternate browser or clear their cache if they previously logged in with a personal/departmental Adobe ID. Users would only be presented with the option to select a personal or school account when logging in if they have a personal Adobe ID tied to their NetID@rutgers.edu.
•	It’s recommended that they update their personal Adobe account to use a non-Rutgers email address before they activate their Rutgers license by following these steps. If they failed to do so before activating their Rutgers Adobe account, they can still try to change their personal account to a non-Rutgers email, and try logging in again. 
If Status shows as External Account then the user has a personal Adobe account using their NetID@rutgers.edu email address. They should follow the directions below to change their email address on their personal account to a non-Rutgers email and then sign up for a Rutgers Adobe account. 
Error! Filename not specified.
•	It’s recommended that they update their personal Adobe account to use a non-Rutgers email address before they activate their Rutgers license by following these steps.
•	They need to follow the steps on How to create your Adobe account and download Adobe Creative Cloud apps and then log in using their NetID@rutgers.edu email address.
Template Response (if they have an active account)
We see you have an active Rutgers Adobe account. Please go to accounts.adobe.com and log in to the Adobe application using your NetID@rutgers.edu email address as this will redirect you to authenticate with your Rutgers credentials. The expected login experience is documented midway down this page: https://it.rutgers.edu/adobe/knowledgebase/how-to-create-your-rutgers-adobe-creative-cloud-account/. 
 
Please let us know if that addresses your issue. 
User has an expiring paid Adobe license and wants to renew it
•	Each user will need to create a new Rutgers Adobe SSO enabled account following the instructions on How to create your Adobe account and download Adobe Creative Cloud apps
•	They will need to manually move any content in Creative Cloud storage by following these steps before expiration.
•	For more information, direct them to our Adobe website, which includes a list of the software available, how-to videos, and a variety of resources for learning and support.
Error Message on CC Desktop App "You don't have access to manage apps, permission from your IT administrator may be required to enable apps management"
1.	
1.	Sign out of and close the Creative Cloud Desktop App
2.	Locate the ServiceConfig.xml file: 
	Windows: C:\Program Files (x86)\Common Files\Adobe\OOBE\Configs\ServiceConfig.xml
	Mac OS: /Library/Application Support/Adobe/OOBE/Configs/ServiceConfig.xml
3.	Move/Copy the file to the Desktop
4.	Open the ServiceConfig.xml using Text Edit for Mac or Notepad for Windows.
5.	Replace wherever you find "false" with "true" and make the change permanent by saving the file.
6.	Move this file to the same location where you copied it from and replace the original file. 
	Windows: C:\Program Files (x86)\Common Files\Adobe\OOBE\Configs\ServiceConfig.xml
	Mac OS: /Library/Application Support/Adobe/OOBE/Configs/ServiceConfig.xml
7.	Reboot the computer
8.	Launch the Creative Cloud Desktop Application to find the Apps panel.
 
" KB0012742 Adobe Creative Cloud What do I do if I already have a free Adobe account? "
You will need to create a new account tied to your Rutgers identity, which requires authentication with your NetID and password. Follow the directions to activate your Rutgers Adobe Creative Cloud account. If you have a personal account, you will have the option to log in with your personal account or with your Rutgers NetID and password.
" KB0012745 Adobe Creative Cloud What if I use my NetID@rutgers.edu for a personal Adobe account? "
We recommend that you update your personal Adobe ID to use a non-Rutgers email address before you activate your Rutgers license by following these steps.
" KB0018711 Adobe Creative Cloud What is included with Adobe Firefly? "
What is included with Adobe Firefly?
Faculty, staff, and students can access Adobe Firefly Standard at no additional cost, courtesy of the Rutgers contract with Adobe.
Adobe must be activated to gain access. To activate Adobe, follow the steps to create your Adobe account and download Adobe Creative Cloud apps.
Adobe Firefly Standard
Most standard generative AI features, like Generative Fill in Photoshop, use 1 credit per generation. Each person is entitled to the standard tier of service and 1,000 monthly credits that can only be used for standard generative AI features. 
Additional Information
Generative credits FAQ
Creative Cloud Generative AI Features
" KB0012748 Adobe Creative Cloud What is included with Adobe Stock? "
Adobe Stock
Faculty, staff, and students can access Adobe Stock at no additional cost, courtesy of the Rutgers contract with Adobe.
Adobe must be activated to gain access. To activate Adobe, please follow these steps: How to create your Adobe account and download Adobe Creative Cloud apps.
Adobe Stock offers a license to nearly a billion assets, including photos, illustrations, and vectors, for their creative work. These assets can be used in print, presentations, videos, social media, websites, and other Rutgers-related projects. Use is limited to Adobe Stock’s standard license restrictions, which do not permit the use of assets in products for resale. Additional free content can be found in Adobe's free section on their content page. 
Adobe Premium Stock
Adobe's Premium Stock collection is not covered under the University's agreement. For access to Adobe's Premium Stock or any other enhanced license, email ruadobe@cdwg.com to receive a quote and instructions on how to proceed. The Premium collection contains thousands of hand-picked images from the portfolios of some of the world’s top photographers and agencies. They have the same file types and resolutions as other Adobe Stock images but have been selected for exceptional content, style, authenticity, and production quality.
" KB0012842 Adobe Creative Cloud What software is included in Adobe Creative Cloud? "
Adobe Creative Cloud includes Acrobat, Illustrator, InDesign, Photoshop, and Premiere, among many others. Adobe Stock Standard is also included. You can view the full list of included applications.
Adobe Captivate, ColdFusion, Photoshop Elements, and Premiere Elements are not included. They can be purchased by contacting ruadobe@cdwg.com for a quote and instructions on how to proceed. 
To learn more, review the overview of Adobe Creative Cloud for enterprise.
" KB0012743 Adobe Creative Cloud What type of information is appropriate for storing with Adobe’s cloud storage? "
Only information appropriate for public consumption should be stored on Adobe’s cloud storage. Critical or restricted data should never be stored on personal cloud storage accounts, as outlined in Rutgers’ Information Classification policy.
" KB0012843 Adobe Creative Cloud Who is eligible to download Adobe Creative Cloud? "
Adobe Creative Cloud is available for active Students, Faculty, Staff, sponsored Guests, and Emeritus. Alumni and Retirees do not have access.
" KB0012844 Adobe Creative Cloud Will I be able to use Adobe Creative Cloud on my own computer? "
Current faculty, employees, students, guests, and Emeriti of the Rutgers community will have access to use Adobe Creative Cloud on both university-owned equipment and personal equipment.
" KB0019496 AI Platform and API Services "Getting Started with ChatGPT Chat, Codex and Work at Rutgers" "
The ChatGPT desktop app is an AI-powered tool developed by OpenAI that includes three modules: ChatGPT Codex (an AI coding agent that can read, edit, and run code directly on your machine), ChatGPT Chat (conversational AI), and ChatGPT Work (workflow automation). The app is available for macOS and Windows, with a terminal CLI, IDE extensions for VS Code and other editors, and a cloud based interface also available. ChatGPT Codex can handle a wide range of software engineering tasks, including writing new features, fixing bugs, refactoring code, running tests, and reviewing pull requests.
The ChatGPT desktop app requires either an active ChatGPT subscription or an API key configured through Portkey. Rutgers faculty, staff, and students can purchase a ChatGPT Edu subscription through the University Software Portal, which provides enterprise-grade data protections and ensures your data is not used to train OpenAI’s models. Alternatively, some ChatGPT Codex and ChatGPT Cowork features can be accessed by configuring a custom API provider such as Rutgers’ Portkey gateway, which routes requests through the university’s enterprise AI infrastructure.
Table of Contents
•	Appropriate Use 
o	ChatGPT Work
o	ChatGPT Codex
o	General Conversations
•	Safety and Data Protection 
o	Use Your Rutgers ChatGPT Account
o	What You Should Know
o	Personal Accounts vs. University Accounts
•	Understanding Costs: ChatGPT Work and ChatGPT Codex are Agentic Systems, Not a Chatbot 
o	Usage and Rate Cards
o	What ChatGPT Work and ChatGPT Codex Are Designed For
o	What ChatGPT Work and ChatGPT Codex are NOT Designed For
•	How to Get Started 
o	Option 1: Purchase a ChatGPT Edu Subscription and Download the ChatGPT Desktop App (Recommended)
o	Option 2: Sign In with a Rutgers ChatGPT Edu Subscription (CLI)
o	Option 3: Use Portkey API Integration
•	Tips for Getting Better Results
•	Other Access Methods
•	Other Free AI Tools at Rutgers
•	Links
Appropriate Use
ChatGPT Work
ChatGPT Work is an agentic workspace for complex knowledge work. ChatGPT Work can autonomously work through multi-step tasks and interact with files on your computer. At this time, Rutgers OIT is not approving integrations between ChatGPT and third-party applications. This is due to ongoing evaluation of security requirements and the need to establish formal policies and governance. Use it for:
•	Document analysis - Upload files and documents for ChatGPT Work to analyze, summarize, cross-reference, and discuss.
•	Research and synthesis - Explore topics, synthesize information from multiple sources, and organize findings.
•	Project planning - Break down complex tasks, outline approaches, and work through problems step by step.
•	Writing and editing - Draft, revise, and refine documents with ChatGPT Work, autonomously revising through multiple rounds.
•	Data processing - ChatGPT Work can run code in an isolated environment to process data, generate visualizations, and produce reports.
As with all AI tools, always review AI-generated content for accuracy before using it in any official capacity.
ChatGPT Codex
ChatGPT Codex is a powerful tool for accelerating software development workflows in academic and professional settings. Common use cases include:
•	Writing code - Generate new functions, classes, modules, or entire project scaffolds from natural language descriptions.
•	Debugging - Identify and fix bugs by describing the problem or pointing ChatGPT Codex at failing tests.
•	Refactoring - Restructure existing code for clarity, performance, or maintainability.
•	Code review - Get an AI-assisted review of changes before committing or submitting pull requests.
•	Running tests - Let ChatGPT Codex execute your test suite and iterate on fixes until tests pass.
•	Learning and exploration - Ask ChatGPT Codex to explain unfamiliar code, libraries, or programming concepts.
•	Automation - Script repeatable workflows using the codex exec command for batch operations.
Always review AI-generated code for correctness, security vulnerabilities, and adherence to your project’s standards before committing it. ChatGPT Codex can produce plausible but incorrect code, introduce subtle bugs, or use outdated patterns.
General Conversations
For simple questions and quick tasks that don’t require agentic capabilities, consider using the Chat tab instead of the Work tab in the ChatGPT desktop app as well as Microsoft Copilot, Google Gemini - they are far more cost-effective for conversational and single-turn tasks.
Safety and Data Protection
Use Your Rutgers ChatGPT Account
When you sign in to the ChatGPT desktop app with a Rutgers ChatGPT Edu account, your data is protected by OpenAI’s enterprise-level data handling agreements with the university. Your conversations, code, and data are not used to train OpenAI’s models. This protection does not apply when using a personal ChatGPT account.
If you are using the ChatGPT desktop app through the Portkey API integration instead of a ChatGPT login, your requests are routed through Rutgers’ enterprise Portkey instance and are similarly protected under the university’s data agreements with AI providers.
What You Should Know
•	Do not send protected health information (PHI), Social Security numbers, financial account numbers, or other highly sensitive data through the ChatGPT desktop app.
•	Do not blindly execute AI-generated code without reviewing it first. ChatGPT Codex can produce code with security vulnerabilities, incorrect logic, or unintended side effects.
•	Be aware of academic integrity policies. Students should consult their instructors and course syllabi regarding the acceptable use of AI coding tools in coursework and assignments.
•	Protect your credentials. Do not commit API keys, tokens, or passwords to version control. Use environment variables or secure credential stores.
Personal Accounts vs. University Accounts
Account comparison
Feature	Personal ChatGPT Account	Rutgers ChatGPT Edu
Data used for model training	Yes	No
Enterprise data protections	No	Yes
Institutional support	No	Yes
Using a Rutgers-provided ChatGPT Edu subscription or the Portkey API integration is strongly recommended for any university-related work.
Understanding Costs: ChatGPT Work and ChatGPT Codex are Agentic Systems, Not a Chatbot
ChatGPT Work and ChatGPT Codex are fundamentally different from conversational AI tools like ChatGPT's own Chat option available on the web and in the desktop app, Copilot, or Gemini. Both the ChatGPT Work and ChatGPT Codex tabs are agentic systems - meaning they can autonomously browse files, execute multi-step workflows, and chain together many operations to complete a task. A single prompt can trigger dozens or even hundreds of calls behind the scenes as GPT reasons through your request, gathers context, and produces a result.
This means ChatGPT Work and ChatGPT Codex can consume significant tokens very quickly. Every step in its reasoning, every file it reads, and every response it generates costs tokens. A complex task that takes GPT several minutes of autonomous work can easily cost more in a single session than an entire day of conversational chatbot usage.
Usage and Rate Cards
Usage under a ChatGPT Edu subscription is metered differently depending on which module you use. Be aware of which module you are using and its associated rate card:
•	ChatGPT Codex and ChatGPT Work are subject to the Codex Rate Card.
•	ChatGPT Chat through the desktop app is subject to the ChatGPT Rate Card (Business/Enterprise/Edu).
What ChatGPT Work and ChatGPT Codex Are Designed For
ChatGPT Work and ChatGPT Codex are purpose-built for complex, multi-step tasks where their agentic capabilities provide real value:
•	In-depth document analysis that requires cross-referencing multiple sources
•	Complex research tasks that involve reasoning across many pieces of information
•	Software development projects using the Code tab
•	Multi-stage workflows that require planning, execution, and iteration
•	Tasks that benefit from desktop automation and tool integration through Cowork
What ChatGPT Work and ChatGPT Codex are NOT Designed For
Do not use the ChatGPT Work and ChatGPT Codex sections of the ChatGPT desktop app for tasks that a simple chatbot can handle. These tasks waste significant resources because the agentic infrastructure activates regardless of how simple your question is:
•	General knowledge questions - “What is the weather today?” or “Explain the difference between TCP and UDP”
•	Simple writing tasks - “Draft a short email to my team about the upcoming meeting”
•	Quick lookups - “How do I make hard boiled eggs?”
•	Learning and tutorials - “Explain how to get started with Python Flask”
•	Brainstorming - “Give me ideas for my research project”
For these types of tasks, use the Chat tab of the desktop app, Microsoft Copilot, Google Gemini, or the Portkey APIs directly.
How to Get Started
There are three ways to authenticate and use the ChatGPT desktop app at Rutgers: using the ChatGPT desktop app (recommended), using the Codex CLI with your Rutgers ChatGPT Edu subscription, or configuring the Codex CLI to use the Portkey API gateway.
Option 1: Purchase a ChatGPT Edu Subscription and Download the ChatGPT Desktop App (Recommended)
The ChatGPT desktop app provides the full ChatGPT Codex experience with an integrated graphical interface. This option requires a purchased ChatGPT Edu license — it cannot be accessed using a Portkey API key.
1.	Purchase a ChatGPT Edu subscription. Visit the University Software Portal at software.rutgers.edu and search for ChatGPT Edu. Faculty and staff can purchase subscriptions for themselves or for members of their department.
2.	Download the ChatGPT desktop app. It is currently available for macOS and Windows.
3.	Launch the app and sign in. Open the ChatGPT desktop app and select Sign in with ChatGPT. Authenticate with your Rutgers ChatGPT Edu credentials: 
o	You will be redirected to the ChatGPT login page. Use the email address sign-in option and enter your Rutgers email (netid@rutgers.edu) and click Continue.
o	When prompted for how to log in, select “Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey”.
o	You will be redirected to the Rutgers Central Authentication Service (CAS) login page, login with your NetID and password.
o	You may be asked to verify it’s you by confirming the details of the login attempt. Click the Approve sign-in to proceed.
o	If this is your first time signing into the ChatGPT desktop app, it may ask for permission to access your ChatGPT account. Review the permissions and click Continue to continue.
o	You can confirm you are signed in to the Rutgers tenant by looking for the Rutgers logo and "Rutgers University" in the bottom-left corner of the app.
4.	Start using ChatGPT Codex or ChatGPT Work. Use the Projects menu item on the left to create a new project or open an existing one. To use ChatGPT Codex, click the dropdown on the top left of the application. Projects for ChatGPT Work and ChatGPT Codex are separate. Once you are ready, describe the task you want ChatGPT Codex or ChatGPT Work to perform.
Option 2: Sign In with a Rutgers ChatGPT Edu Subscription (CLI)
If you prefer working in the terminal, the Codex CLI provides access to all ChatGPT Codex features, including the latest models. This option also requires a purchased ChatGPT Edu license.
1.	Purchase a ChatGPT Edu subscription. Visit the University Software Portal at software.rutgers.edu and search for ChatGPT Edu. Faculty and staff can purchase subscriptions for themselves or for members of their department.
2.	Install Codex CLI. Open a terminal and run:
3.	npm install -g @openai/codex
Codex CLI is also available via Homebrew (brew install --cask codex) or as a direct binary download from the GitHub releases page.
4.	Create or navigate to a project directory. The Codex CLI works best when run from within a project directory that contains your codebase. You can create a new directory mkdir or navigate to an existing one cd first. You should never run codex from your home directory or any directory containing sensitive files.
5.	Launch the Codex CLI and sign in. Run codex in your terminal. You will be asked to trust the directory you are in, if you trst it tell it Yes, continue, if not choose No, quit and go to a directory you trust. On first launch, select Sign in with ChatGPT and authenticate with your Rutgers credentials:
o	You will be redirected to the ChatGPT login page. Use the email address sign-in option and enter your Rutgers email (netid@rutgers.edu) and click Continue.
o	When prompted for how to log in, select “Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey”.
o	You will be redirected to the Rutgers Central Authentication Service (CAS) login page, login with your NetID and password.
o	You may be asked to verify it’s you by confirming the details of the login attempt. Click the Approve sign-in to proceed.
o	If this is your first time signing into the Codex CLI, it may ask for permission to access your ChatGPT account. Review the permissions and click Continue to continue.
If you have already signed in through the desktop app, the CLI should automatically detect your credentials and sign you in without needing to repeat the process.
6.	Start using ChatGPT Codex. Navigate to a project directory and run codex followed by a natural language description of what you want to do. For example:
7.	codex "add input validation to the signup form"
Option 3: Use Portkey API Integration
If you do not have a ChatGPT Edu subscription, you can configure the Codex CLI and ChatGPT desktop app to route requests through Rutgers’ Portkey API gateway. This provides access to OpenAI models (and other providers) through Portkey, though some ChatGPT Codex and ChatGPT Work features that require a direct ChatGPT login may not be available.
1.	Obtain a Portkey API key. Follow the instructions in the Getting Started with Portkey guide to request access and obtain your API key from the Rutgers Account Tools Self-Service area, within the Portkey card (once you have a Portkey account activated).
2.	Install Codex CLI if needed. Open a terminal and run:
3.	npm install -g @openai/codex
4.	Create or edit the Codex CLI/ChatGPT desktop app configuration file at ~/.codex/config.toml and add a custom model provider:
5.	model_provider = "portkey"
6.	model = "@model_provider/model_name"
7.	
8.	[model_providers.portkey]
9.	name = "Portkey"
10.	base_url = "https://api.portkey.ai/v1"
11.	env_key = "PORTKEY_API_KEY"
12.	wire_api = "responses"
You can identify available models and providers for your Portkey workspace by going to the Rutgers Account Tools Self-Service area and selecting Manage API Keys in the Portkey card.
13.	Add Portkey API key to environment variables. Add the following line to your shell profile (~/.bashrc, ~/.zshrc, etc.) with your actual API key:
14.	export PORTKEY_API_KEY="your_portkey_api_key_here"
Then reload your shell configuration with source ~/.bashrc or source ~/.zshrc.
15.	Launch the Codex CLI or ChatGPT desktop app. Run codex in your terminal and begin working. If using the ChatGPT desktop app with a Portkey API key, you may notice some slight UI differences, such as the ChatGPT Work tab not having a Chat option, and instead of seeing "Rutgers University" in the bottom right of the app, you should see "Portkey". 
o	NOTE: You may see a warning saying "Model metadata for @provider/model not found. ...this may degrade performance and cause issues." that can be ignored, it’s just because the Codex CLI doesn’t have the full metadata that it can normally receive from the OpenAI servers. From our experience, the Codex CLI still works with Portkey as a provider without any issues.
Tips for Getting Better Results
•	Be specific with your prompts. Instead of “fix the bug,” try “fix the null pointer exception in the processOrder function when the shipping address is empty.”
•	Provide context. Let ChatGPT Codex know what framework, language, or conventions your project uses.
•	Use autonomy modes. ChatGPT Codex offers configurable approval modes that control how much oversight you have before it edits files or runs commands. Start with a more cautious mode until you are comfortable.
•	Point ChatGPT Codex at tests. When possible, ask ChatGPT Codex to run your test suite after making changes so it can verify its own work.
•	Iterate on results. If the first attempt isn’t right, provide feedback and ask ChatGPT Codex to refine its approach.
•	Use the lowest-cost model for the work needed. ChatGPT Codex offers several models at different capabilities and cost tiers. The default when launching is often a high-capability model such as GPT?5.6 Sol, but simpler tasks — writing a small script, explaining a function, or fixing a typo — do not require it. Select a lower-cost model when it will suffice.
Other Access Methods
In addition to the desktop application and terminal CLI, ChatGPT Codex is available through the following (ChatGPT Edu subscription required):
•	VS Code extension - Install the Codex extension from the VS Code Extensions panel and log in with your Rutgers ChatGPT account.
•	Web interface - Use Codex Cloud at chatgpt.com/codex to run tasks in cloud sandboxes by logging in with your Rutgers ChatGPT account.
Other Free AI Tools at Rutgers
Before purchasing a ChatGPT Edu subscription, consider that Rutgers also provides free access to other AI tools, including Microsoft Copilot and Google Gemini. For AI-assisted coding specifically, tools like Claude Code can also be configured to work with the Portkey API gateway. The Office of Information Technology recommends exploring free alternatives unless your unit has an immediate need for a paid subscription.
Links
•	Codex - OpenAI
•	Codex CLI Documentation
•	Codex Configuration Reference
•	Codex GitHub Repository
•	ChatGPT Edu at Rutgers - Rutgers IT
•	University Software Portal
•	ChatGPT Edu FAQs
•	Getting Started with Portkey at Rutgers
•	AI at Rutgers - Office of Information Technology
•	Codex Rate Card
•	ChatGPT Rate Card (Business/Enterprise/Edu)
" KB0019479 AI Platform and API Services Getting Started with Claude Code (Terminal CLI) "
Claude Code is Anthropic’s AI-powered coding assistant that runs directly in your terminal. It can read and edit files, run commands, search your codebase, interact with Git, and help you build, debug, and refactor code through natural language conversation. By integrating Portkey with Claude Code, you can use Claude’s AI capabilities while routing all requests through Rutgers’ enterprise Portkey gateway, ensuring your data is protected and usage is tracked.
This guide walks you through installing Claude Code and configuring it to work with your Rutgers Portkey account in the terminal. If you prefer to use Claude Code within VS Code, see Getting Started with the Claude Code VS Code Extension instead.
Table of Contents
•	Appropriate Use
•	Safety and Data Protection 
o	What You Should Know
•	Understanding Costs: Claude Code Is an Agentic System, Not a Chatbot 
o	What Claude Code Is Designed For
o	What Claude Code Is NOT Designed For
o	Monitoring Your Usage
•	Installation 
o	Step 1: Install Claude Code
o	Step 2: Initialize Claude Code
o	Step 3: Configure Portkey Connection
o	Step 4: Bypass the Onboarding Process
o	Step 5: Test Your Setup
•	Configuration File Reference
•	Useful Slash Commands
•	Known Limitations
•	Links
Appropriate Use
Claude Code is a powerful tool for software development and technical work:
•	Writing code - Generate functions, classes, scripts, and entire project structures from natural language descriptions.
•	Debugging - Describe a bug or error message and let Claude help identify and fix the issue.
•	Refactoring - Ask Claude to improve code quality, modernize patterns, or restructure files.
•	Code review - Get feedback on your code’s quality, security, and maintainability.
•	Learning - Ask Claude to explain code, concepts, or design patterns.
As with all AI tools, always review code generated by Claude before running or deploying it. AI-generated code can contain bugs, security vulnerabilities, or incorrect logic.
Safety and Data Protection
When Claude Code is configured to use Rutgers’ Portkey gateway, all API requests are routed through the university’s enterprise instance:
•	Your code and conversations are not used to train AI models.
•	API usage is tracked for accounting purposes through the Portkey for auditing and cost management.
What You Should Know
•	Do not use Claude Code on repositories that contain highly sensitive data, such as PHI, Social Security numbers, or financial credentials.
•	Review all code changes before accepting them. Claude Code will ask for your approval before modifying files.
•	Protect your Portkey API key. If your key is compromised, contact your administrator immediately to rotate it.
•	Do not start Claude Code in your home directory. Always navigate to a specific project directory first (see warning below).
Understanding Costs: Claude Code Is an Agentic System, Not a Chatbot
Claude Code is fundamentally different from conversational AI tools like ChatGPT, Copilot, or Gemini. It is an agentic system - meaning it autonomously reads files, runs commands, searches your codebase, makes edits, and chains together multiple operations to complete a task. A single prompt can trigger dozens or even hundreds of API calls behind the scenes as Claude explores your project, plans an approach, and implements changes.
This means Claude Code can consume significant API credits very quickly. Every file it reads, every search it runs, and every response it generates costs tokens. A complex task that takes Claude several minutes of autonomous work can easily cost more in a single session than an entire day of conversational chatbot usage.
What Claude Code Is Designed For
Claude Code is purpose-built for complex, multi-step software development tasks where its agentic capabilities provide real value:
•	Implementing a new feature across multiple files in a codebase
•	Debugging a complex issue that requires reading and tracing code across many files
•	Refactoring an entire module or migrating a codebase to a new pattern
•	Setting up a project with build configuration, tests, and CI/CD pipelines
•	Reviewing a pull request and providing detailed, code-aware feedback
What Claude Code Is NOT Designed For
Do not use Claude Code for tasks that a simple chatbot can handle. These tasks waste significant resources because Claude Code’s agentic infrastructure activates regardless of how simple your question is:
•	General knowledge questions - “What is the weather today?” or “Explain the difference between TCP and UDP”
•	Simple code snippets - “Write me a quick Python script to convert CSV to JSON”
•	Learning and tutorials - “Explain how to get started with Python Flask”
•	Writing and editing - “Draft an email to my team about the upcoming meeting”
•	Brainstorming - “Give me ideas for my research project”
For these types of tasks, use ChatGPT Edu, Microsoft Copilot, Google Gemini, or the Portkey APIs directly - they are far more cost-effective for conversational and single-turn tasks.
Monitoring Your Usage
Keep an eye on your API spending by logging into the Rutgers Account Tools Self-Service area and looking for your Portkey card (once you have a Portkey account). If you are unsure whether a task warrants using Claude Code, consider whether the task requires Claude to autonomously explore and modify your codebase. If it does not, use a less expensive tool.
Installation
Step 1: Install Claude Code
Open your terminal and run:
macOS / Linux:
curl -fsSL https://claude.ai/install.sh | bash
Windows (PowerShell):
irm https://claude.ai/install.ps1 | iex
After installation, the installer may instruct you to add Claude to your PATH by modifying your .bashrc or .zshrc file. Follow the on-screen instructions - it will typically be a simple echo command to append to your shell configuration file.
For more installation options, see the Claude Code Quickstart documentation.
Step 2: Initialize Claude Code
Run the following command to initialize Claude Code without starting an interactive session:
claude --init-only
Step 3: Configure Portkey Connection
Create or edit the global settings file at ~/.claude/settings.json with the following content:
{
  "$schema": "https://json.schemastore.org/claude-code-settings.json",
  "theme": "dark",
  "editor": "code",
  "env": {
    "ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL": "https://api.portkey.ai",
    "ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN": "YOUR_PORTKEY_API_KEY",
    "ANTHROPIC_CUSTOM_HEADERS": "x-portkey-api-key: YOUR_PORTKEY_API_KEY\nx-portkey-provider: @model_provider",
    "ANTHROPIC_DEFAULT_SONNET_MODEL": "model_name1",
    "ANTHROPIC_DEFAULT_OPUS_MODEL": "model_name2",
    "ANTHROPIC_DEFAULT_HAIKU_MODEL": "model_name3"
  },
  "model": "model_name1"
}
Replace both instances of YOUR_PORTKEY_API_KEY with your actual Portkey API key from the Rutgers Account Tools Self-Service area, within the Portkey card (once you have a Portkey account activated). You can also retrieve model providers and model names from this same card.
Configuration Explained
Settings explanations
Setting	Purpose
ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL	Redirects Claude Code to send requests through Portkey instead of directly to Anthropic.
ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN	Authenticates your requests with Portkey.
ANTHROPIC_CUSTOM_HEADERS	Passes your Portkey API key and specifies the @claude-models provider for routing.
ANTHROPIC_DEFAULT_*_MODEL	Specifies which Claude model to use for each tier (Sonnet, Opus, Haiku).
model	Sets the default model Claude Code uses for conversations.
Step 4: Bypass the Onboarding Process
Since you are authenticating through Portkey rather than an Anthropic account, you need to skip Claude Code’s standard onboarding flow. Edit the file ~/.claude.json and add the following line somewhere in the JSON object:
"hasCompletedOnboarding": true,
For example, if your ~/.claude.json looks like this:
{
  "someExistingSetting": "value"
}
Change it to:
{
  "someExistingSetting": "value",
  "hasCompletedOnboarding": true
}
Step 5: Test Your Setup
Important: Never start Claude Code from your home directory. Always create or navigate to a project directory first.
mkdir ~/testing
cd ~/testing
claude
Once Claude Code starts, try a simple prompt to verify everything is working:
Create a simple hello world python script in a file named helloworld.py
If Claude successfully generates the file, your Portkey integration is configured correctly.
Configuration File Reference
Claude Code uses a hierarchy of configuration files that let you manage settings at different levels:
File explanations
File	Path	Purpose
Global settings	~/.claude/settings.json	Settings that apply to every project. This is where your Portkey configuration lives.
Project settings	your-project/.claude/settings.json	Settings shared with your team (usually committed to Git).
Local project overrides	your-project/.claude/settings.local.json	Personal overrides for a specific project (make sure your .gitignore file ignores this so it is not commited to Git).
Useful Slash Commands
Once inside Claude Code, you can use slash commands to control your session:
List of commands
Command	Description
/help	Show available commands
/clear	Clear conversation history
/resume	Resume a previous conversation
/compact	Condense the current conversation to save context
/model	Change the current model
For a complete list, see the Claude Code Commands documentation.
Known Limitations
Since you are connecting through Portkey rather than signing into a Claude account with a Pro or Max subscription, the following limitations apply:
•	Remote Control is not available. Features that require a direct Anthropic account connection (such as Remote Control for collaborative sessions) will not work through Portkey.
•	Slack integration is not available. The Slack app requires a direct connection to an Anthropic account and cannot be used with Portkey.
•	Some account-specific features may be unavailable. Features tied to Anthropic subscription tiers may not be accessible when routing through a third-party API gateway.
•	No voice dictation. Voice dictation streams your recorded audio to Anthropic’s servers for transcription. Audio is not processed locally. The speech-to-text service is only available when you authenticate with a Claude.ai account.
Links
•	Claude Code Quickstart
•	Claude Code Commands Reference
•	Portkey Dashboard
•	Getting Started with Portkey at Rutgers
•	Getting Started with the Claude Code VS Code Extension
•	Getting Started with Claude Desktop
•	AI at Rutgers - Office of Information Technology
" KB0019482 AI Platform and API Services Getting Started with Claude Desktop "
Claude Desktop is Anthropic’s native application for macOS and Windows that brings Claude’s AI capabilities to your desktop. It provides three primary modes:
•	Chat - A traditional conversational AI interface for direct interaction with Claude.
NOTE: When using third-party inference, the Chat tab is not available - only the Cowork and Code tabs are accessible. The Chat tab requires a direct Anthropic account.
•	Cowork - An autonomous agent that can execute multi-step knowledge work tasks on your behalf, including file operations, web browsing, and desktop automation - without requiring terminal expertise.
•	Code - An integrated development environment for AI-powered software development, debugging, and code review.
By configuring Claude Desktop to use a third-party inference provider like Portkey, all AI requests are routed through Rutgers’ enterprise gateway instead of Anthropic’s servers. This ensures your conversations and data remain under university data protection agreements while giving you access to Claude’s full capabilities.
This deployment mode - called “Cowork on 3P (Third Party)” - is designed for organizations that need to control where their data flows. Conversations are stored locally on your device, and only model inference requests are sent through your configured provider (in this case, Portkey).
Table of Contents
•	Appropriate Use 
o	Cowork
o	Code
o	General Conversations
•	Safety and Data Protection 
o	What You Should Know
•	Understanding Costs: Claude Desktop Is an Agentic System, Not a Chatbot 
o	What Claude Desktop Is Designed For
o	What Claude Desktop Is NOT Designed For
o	Monitoring Your Usage
•	System Requirements
•	Installation and Setup 
o	Step 1: Download Claude Desktop
o	Step 2: Enable Developer Mode
o	Step 3: Configure Third-Party Inference
o	Step 4: Apply Configuration
o	Step 5: Verify Your Setup
•	Architecture Overview
•	Telemetry Data
•	Known Limitations
•	Links
Appropriate Use
Cowork
The Cowork tab is an agentic workspace for complex knowledge work. Claude can autonomously work through multi-step tasks, interact with files on your computer, and use connectors to integrate with tools like Slack and Chrome. Use it for:
•	Document analysis - Upload files and documents for Claude to analyze, summarize, cross-reference, and discuss.
•	Research and synthesis - Explore topics, synthesize information from multiple sources, and organize findings.
•	Project planning - Break down complex tasks, outline approaches, and work through problems step by step.
•	Writing and editing - Draft, revise, and refine documents with Claude working autonomously through multiple rounds.
•	Data processing - Claude can run code in an isolated environment to process data, generate visualizations, and produce reports.
Code
The Code tab provides an AI-powered development workspace. Use it for:
•	Software development - Build, debug, and refactor code with AI assistance.
•	Code review - Get feedback on code quality, security, and best practices.
General Conversations
For simple questions and quick tasks that don’t require agentic capabilities, consider using ChatGPT Edu, Microsoft Copilot, Google Gemini, or the Portkey APIs directly instead - they are far more cost-effective for conversational and single-turn tasks.
As with all AI tools, always review AI-generated content for accuracy before using it in any official capacity.
Safety and Data Protection
When Claude Desktop is configured to route through Rutgers’ Portkey gateway:
•	Your conversations are stored locally on your device, not on Anthropic’s servers.
•	Your data is not used to train AI models. The enterprise agreements ensure your inputs and outputs are protected.
•	Only inference requests are sent through Portkey. The application itself runs locally - only conversation data is transmitted to Portkey.
•	Telemetry data (crash reports, analytics) sent to Anthropic is scrubbed of conversation and user data and can be disabled entirely if needed.
What You Should Know
•	Do not enter protected health information (PHI), Social Security numbers, financial account numbers, or other highly sensitive data into Claude Desktop.
•	Review AI-generated content carefully. Claude can produce plausible-sounding but incorrect information.
•	Protect your configuration. Your Portkey API key is stored in your system’s managed configuration. Do not share configuration files that contain your API key.
Understanding Costs: Claude Desktop Is an Agentic System, Not a Chatbot
Claude Desktop is fundamentally different from conversational AI tools like ChatGPT, Copilot, or Gemini. Both the Cowork and Code tabs are agentic systems - meaning they can autonomously browse files, execute multi-step workflows, and chain together many operations to complete a task. A single prompt can trigger dozens or even hundreds of API calls behind the scenes as Claude reasons through your request, gathers context, and produces a result.
This means Claude Desktop can consume significant API credits very quickly. Every step in its reasoning, every file it reads, and every response it generates costs tokens. A complex task that takes Claude several minutes of autonomous work can easily cost more in a single session than an entire day of conversational chatbot usage.
What Claude Desktop Is Designed For
Claude Desktop is purpose-built for complex, multi-step tasks where its agentic capabilities provide real value:
•	In-depth document analysis that requires cross-referencing multiple sources
•	Complex research tasks that involve reasoning across many pieces of information
•	Software development projects using the Code tab
•	Multi-stage workflows that require planning, execution, and iteration
•	Tasks that benefit from desktop automation and tool integration through Cowork
What Claude Desktop Is NOT Designed For
Do not use Claude Desktop for tasks that a simple chatbot can handle. These tasks waste significant resources because the agentic infrastructure activates regardless of how simple your question is:
•	General knowledge questions - “What is the weather today?” or “Explain the difference between TCP and UDP”
•	Simple writing tasks - “Draft a short email to my team about the upcoming meeting”
•	Quick lookups - “How do I make hard boiled eggs?”
•	Learning and tutorials - “Explain how to get started with Python Flask”
•	Brainstorming - “Give me ideas for my research project”
For these types of tasks, use ChatGPT Edu, Microsoft Copilot, Google Gemini, or the Portkey APIs directly.
Monitoring Your Usage
Keep an eye on your API spending by logging into the Rutgers Account Tools Self-Service area and looking for your Portkey card (once you have a Portkey account). If you are unsure whether a task warrants using Claude Desktop, ask yourself: Does this task require Claude to autonomously reason through multiple steps, read files, or execute a multi-part workflow? If not, use a less expensive tool.
System Requirements
•	macOS: Version 13.0 (Ventura) or later
•	Windows: Windows 10 or Windows 11
•	Portkey credentials: A Rutgers Portkey API key from app.portkey.ai
Installation and Setup
Step 1: Download Claude Desktop
1.	Go to claude.com/download and download the installer for your operating system.
2.	macOS: Open the .dmg file and drag Claude.app to your Applications folder.
3.	Windows: Run the .msix installer and follow the prompts.
Step 2: Enable Developer Mode
After installing, launch the Claude Desktop application. Do not sign in with an Anthropic account. Instead:
1.	Go to Help > Troubleshooting in the menu bar.
2.	Click Enable Developer Mode.
3.	A new Developer menu will appear.
Step 3: Configure Third-Party Inference
1.	Go to Developer > Configure third-party inference in the menu bar.
2.	The setup interface will appear, with fields to configure your inference provider.
3.	Configure the following settings:
Values for fields
Field	Value
Connection	Gateway
Gateway Base URL	https://api.portkey.ai
Credential kind	Static API key
Gateway API Key	Your Portkey API key
Gateway auth scheme	bearer
Custom inference headers	x-portkey-api-key: YOUR_PORTKEY_API_KEY and x-portkey-provider: @model_provider
Model discovery	Turn the slider to OFF. This setting does not work with Portkey.
Model list (add these)	model_name1, model_name2, model_name3
Offer 1M-context variant	If the model you're configuring supports this feature, you may toggle the slider. Otherwise, leave it off.
Tier alias	Optional configuration to select models faster without having to remember versions. Select the appropriate option if desired.
Default for tier	If setting up multiple models in the same class (ex. Opus 4.6 and Opus 4.8), you may wish to set one as the default for when you use the above tier alias.
Disable Claude.ai sign-in	Turn the slider to OFF. You will have to search for this setting as it is not in the "Connection" tab.
Replace YOUR_PORTKEY_API_KEY with your actual Portkey API key from the Rutgers Account Tools Self-Service area, within the Portkey card (once you have a Portkey account activated). You can also retrieve model providers and model names from this same card.
Step 4: Apply Configuration
Press the Apply locally button to save your changes.
Step 5: Verify Your Setup
After applying the configuration, restart Claude Desktop. If configured correctly:
•	You will see Cowork and Code tabs in the application.
•	There will be no Chat tab (the Chat tab requires a direct Anthropic account and is not available with third-party inference).
•	You will be able to start a conversation and receive responses routed through Portkey.
Try a simple prompt to verify:
Hello! Can you confirm you're working correctly?
If you receive a response, your Portkey integration is configured correctly.
Architecture Overview
When using Claude Desktop with Portkey, the data flow is:
Your Device (Claude Desktop) -> Portkey Gateway (api.portkey.ai) -> Claude AI Models -> Portkey -> Your Device
Component locations
Component	Where It Runs
Claude Desktop application	Locally on your device
Conversation storage	Locally on your device
Model inference	Routed through Portkey to AI providers
Telemetry (optional)	Anthropic (scrubbed of conversation data)
This architecture ensures that your conversation data never leaves your device except as inference requests to the configured gateway.
Telemetry Data
Anthropic's telemetry data never includes your prompts or responses; it only includes metrics such as token usage, crash reports, and general OS information.  If you would like to completely disable all telemetry, you'll need to do a little search and manual editing of config files. First, completely close the Claude Desktop.
Navigate to the ~/Library/Application Support/Claude-3p/configLibrary/ folder in Finder and open the _meta.json file to find the appliedId value, which contains the filename that we need to open next. The file will look something like abcd2345-a322-b321-234b-723abcdef234.json, open that file, and we want to add 4 lines right about the inferenceModels line:
Do the following:
  "disableEssentialTelemetry": true,
  "disableNonessentialTelemetry": true,
  "disableNonessentialServices": true,
  "disableAutoUpdates": true,
When you restart Claude Desktop, all telemetry data will be disabled.
Known Limitations
Since you are using Claude Desktop via a third-party provider (Portkey) rather than a standard Anthropic account:
•	No Chat tab. The Chat experience requires a direct Anthropic account and is not available in third-party inference mode.
•	No Anthropic account login. Authentication is handled through your Portkey API key, not an Anthropic account.
•	No plugin support. Plugin support is not possible when configuration is through an organization, which we do not have available at this time.
•	Some features may be unavailable. Features that require Anthropic’s cloud infrastructure (such as the skills marketplace) may not be available in third-party deployment mode.
•	Configuration is managed locally or via MDM. There is no web-based admin console - settings are applied through configuration files or mobile device management.
Links
•	Claude Desktop Download
•	Install and Configure Claude Cowork with Third-Party Platforms
•	Cowork on 3P Overview
•	Portkey Dashboard
•	Getting Started with Portkey at Rutgers
•	Integrating Portkey into Claude Code (Terminal CLI)
•	Integrating Portkey into Claude Code VS Code Extension
•	AI at Rutgers - Office of Information Technology
" KB0019481 AI Platform and API Services Getting Started with Integrating Your Portkey APIs into Open WebUI "
If you are interested in integrating your personal Portkey API access into an existing Open WebUI setup, follow the instructions below.
Table of Contents
•	Introduction
•	Appropriate Use
•	Safety and Data Protection 
o	What You Should Know
•	Method 1: Admin Setup 
o	Step 1: Get Your Credentials
o	Step 2: Add Portkey to Open WebUI
o	Step 3: Verify Models Are Available
•	Method 2: User Setup (Direct Connection) 
o	Step 1: Get Your Credentials
o	Step 2: Add Portkey to Open WebUI
o	Step 3: Verify Models Are Available
•	Tips for Using Open WebUI with Portkey
•	Links
Introduction
Open WebUI is a self-hosted, web-based interface for interacting with AI models. It provides a familiar chat experience similar to ChatGPT or other commercial AI platforms, but runs on infrastructure you control. By connecting Open WebUI to Rutgers’ Portkey gateway, you can access multiple AI models (OpenAI GPT, Anthropic Claude, Meta Llama, and more) through a single chat interface while ensuring your data is protected under the university’s enterprise agreements.
This guide covers two methods for connecting Portkey to Open WebUI, depending on your level of access to the Open WebUI instance. Use only one of the two methods below - the Admin method if you manage the Open WebUI server, or the User method if you have a regular account on someone else’s instance.
Appropriate Use
Open WebUI with Portkey provides a conversational AI interface for a variety of tasks:
•	Writing and editing - Draft, revise, and proofread documents, emails, and reports.
•	Research and summarization - Summarize articles, explore topics, and synthesize information.
•	Brainstorming - Generate ideas for projects, presentations, and creative work.
•	Coding assistance - Write, debug, and explain code in multiple programming languages.
•	Teaching and learning - Create study materials, explain concepts, and generate practice questions.
•	Data analysis - Interpret data, draft reports, and explore analytical approaches.
As with all AI tools, always review AI-generated content for accuracy before using it in any official capacity.
Safety and Data Protection
When Open WebUI is connected to Rutgers’ Portkey gateway, all AI requests are routed through the university’s enterprise instance:
•	Your data is not used to train AI models. The enterprise agreements between Rutgers and the AI providers ensure your inputs and outputs are not used for model training.
•	API usage is tracked for accounting purposes through the Portkey dashboard.
What You Should Know
•	Do not enter protected health information (PHI), Social Security numbers, financial account numbers, or other highly sensitive data into Open WebUI or any AI tool.
•	Review AI-generated content carefully. AI models can produce plausible-sounding but incorrect information.
•	Protect your Portkey API key. Treat it like a password - do not share it or post it in documentation.
•	Be aware of academic integrity policies. Students should consult their instructors about acceptable use of AI tools in coursework.
Method 1: Admin Setup
Use this method if you are setting up an Open WebUI instance and have admin access. This configures Portkey as a server-wide connection available to all users on the instance.
Step 1: Get Your Credentials
1.	Sign in to the Rutgers Account Tools Self-Service area, within the Portkey card (once you have a Portkey account activated).
2.	Create your Portkey API key and save it.
Step 2: Add Portkey to Open WebUI
1.	Sign into your Open WebUI instance with an admin account.
2.	Go to Admin Panel > Settings > Connections.
3.	Under OpenAI API, click the + button to add a new connection.
4.	Fill in the following fields:
Field Values
Field	Value
Connection Type	External
URL	https://api.portkey.ai/v1
Auth	Bearer YOUR_PORTKEY_API_KEY
Prefix ID	portkey
Provider Type	OpenAI
API Type	Chat Completions
Model IDs	(leave empty)
Replace YOUR_PORTKEY_API_KEY with your actual Portkey API key.
1.	Next to the URL field, click the Verify icon. You should receive a “Successful Connection” message.
2.	Click Save.
Step 3: Verify Models Are Available
1.	Go to Admin Panel > Settings > Models.
2.	All of your Portkey models should appear with a portkey. prefix (e.g., portkey.gpt-4o, portkey.claude-sonnet-4-6).
If models appear in the list, the integration is configured correctly and users on your instance can now select Portkey models from the model dropdown in their chats.
Method 2: User Setup (Direct Connection)
Use this method if you have access to an Open WebUI instance but do not have admin access. This uses Open WebUI’s Direct Connections feature to add Portkey as a personal connection tied to your account.
Note: Direct Connections must be enabled by the server administrator. If the option is not available, contact your Open WebUI administrator to either enable Direct Connections or configure Portkey at the server level using the Admin method above.
Step 1: Get Your Credentials
1.	Sign in to the Rutgers Account Tools Self-Service area, within the Portkey card (once you have a Portkey account activated).
2.	Create your Portkey API key and save it.
Step 2: Add Portkey to Open WebUI
1.	Sign into your Open WebUI instance.
2.	Go to Settings > Connections.
3.	You will see “Manage Direct Connections”. Click the + button to add a new connection. 
o	If you do not see the + button, your Open WebUI server administrators have disabled the Direct Connections feature. Contact your administrator for assistance.
4.	Fill in the following fields:
Field Values
Field	Value
URL	https://api.portkey.ai/v1
Auth	Bearer YOUR_PORTKEY_API_KEY
Prefix ID	pk
Model IDs	(leave empty)
Replace YOUR_PORTKEY_API_KEY with your actual Portkey API key.
1.	Next to the URL field, click the Verify icon. You should receive a “Successful Connection” message.
2.	Click Save.
Step 3: Verify Models Are Available
When you open a new chat, click the model selector at the top. Your Portkey models should appear with a pk. prefix (e.g., pk.gpt-4o, pk.claude-sonnet-4-6).
If models appear in the selector, your personal Portkey connection is configured correctly.
Tips for Using Open WebUI with Portkey
•	Check which models are available. The models available through Rutgers’ Portkey instance may differ from public listings. Look at the model selector to see what is available with your Portkey prefix.
•	Use system prompts. Open WebUI allows you to set system prompts for conversations to customize the AI’s behavior and tone.
•	Try different models. One advantage of Portkey is access to multiple AI providers. Experiment with different models to find which works best for your specific task.
•	Review the Portkey dashboard. Visit app.portkey.ai to monitor your usage, view logs, and track costs.
Links
•	Open WebUI Documentation
•	Getting Started with Portkey
•	How to Use Portkey APIs
•	AI at Rutgers - Office of Information Technology
" KB0019477 AI Platform and API Services Getting Started with Portkey "
Portkey is an enterprise AI gateway that Rutgers provides to enable faculty, staff, and researchers to access multiple large language models (LLMs) - such as OpenAI’s GPT, Anthropic’s Claude, Meta’s Llama, and many others, through a single, unified API. Instead of managing separate accounts and API keys with each AI provider, you use Portkey as a secure intermediary that routes your requests to the appropriate model while providing centralized access control and data protection.
Portkey is designed for users who need programmatic access to AI models - researchers building AI-powered applications, developers integrating AI into workflows, faculty exploring AI in computational courses, and staff automating tasks with scripts or code. If you are looking for a conversational AI chat interface (rather than an API), consider using ChatGPT Edu, Microsoft Copilot, or Google Gemini instead.
Table of Contents
•	Who Is Portkey For?
•	How Portkey Works
•	Safety and Data Protection 
o	Enterprise-Level Protection
o	What You Should Know
o	Personal API Accounts vs. Rutgers Portkey
•	How to Get Started 
o	Request Access
o	Using Portkey APIs
•	Links
Who Is Portkey For?
•	Researchers who need API access to AI models for experiments, data analysis, or building research tools.
•	Developers building AI-powered applications, chatbots, agents, or automation workflows.
•	Faculty integrating AI APIs into coursework, labs, or computational projects.
•	Staff using scripts or code to automate tasks with AI assistance.
•	Anyone who needs to call AI models programmatically via cURL, Python, Node.js, or other programming languages.
How Portkey Works
Portkey sits between your application and the AI model providers. When you send a request through Portkey:
1.	Your application sends an API request to Portkey using your Portkey API key.
2.	Portkey authenticates your request, applies any configured routing rules, and forwards it to the appropriate AI provider (OpenAI, Anthropic, etc.).
3.	The AI provider processes the request and returns a response through Portkey back to your application.
4.	Portkey tracks the cost and applies any usage limits or access controls that have been set up by your administrator.
This architecture provides several key benefits:
•	Unified API - Access multiple AI providers through a single, consistent API interface. Switch between models without changing your application code.
•	Data protection - Requests routed through Rutgers’ Portkey instance are subject to the university’s enterprise data agreements. Your data is protected from being used to train AI models.
•	Cost tracking and monitoring - All API usage is recorded, providing visibility into costs and token usage.
•	Access control - Administrators can manage who has access, set usage limits, and configure routing rules.
•	Reliability - Portkey supports automatic fallbacks, retries, and load balancing across providers to keep your applications running smoothly.
Safety and Data Protection
Enterprise-Level Protection
When you use Portkey through Rutgers, your API requests are routed through the university’s enterprise Portkey instance. This provides important protections:
•	Your data is not used to train AI models. The enterprise agreements between Rutgers and the AI providers ensure your inputs and outputs are not used for model training.
•	Centralized security controls. Portkey administrators can enforce security policies, monitor usage, and respond to any issues that arise.
•	Compliance with university policies. Using Portkey helps ensure that your use of AI APIs aligns with Rutgers’ data classification and acceptable use policies.
What You Should Know
•	Do not send protected health information (PHI), Social Security numbers, financial account numbers, or other highly sensitive data through Portkey or any AI API.
•	Review AI-generated output carefully. AI model responses can contain errors, biased content, or fabricated information.
•	Follow university policies regarding data classification and acceptable use of AI tools.
•	Protect your Portkey API key. Treat it like a password - do not commit it to public code repositories, share it in emails, or post it in documentation.
Personal API Accounts vs. Rutgers Portkey
Feature Comparison
Feature	Personal AI API Account	Rutgers Portkey
Data used for model training	Varies by provider	No
Enterprise data protections	No	Yes
Centralized cost tracking	No	Yes
Access to multiple providers	Separate accounts needed	Single API key
Institutional support	No	Yes
How to Get Started
Request Access
To request access to Portkey please fill out the Portkey Workspace Request form.
Using Portkey APIs
Once your access is confirmed, refer to the following guides to start building:
•	How to Use Portkey APIs - Detailed instructions for using Portkey with cURL, Python, and other languages.
•	Getting Started with Integrating Your Portkey APIs into Open WebUI - Integrating Portkey into your own Open WebUI instance 
Links
•	Portkey AI Gateway
•	Portkey Documentation
•	AI at Rutgers - Office of Information Technology
" KB0019480 AI Platform and API Services Getting Started with the Claude Code VS Code Extension "
The Claude Code extension for Visual Studio Code brings Anthropic’s AI-powered coding assistant directly into your editor. It provides the same capabilities as the terminal version of Claude Code - reading and editing files, running commands, debugging, refactoring, and interacting with Git - but within the familiar VS Code interface. By configuring the extension to use Rutgers’ Portkey gateway, all requests are routed through the university’s enterprise instance for data protection and usage tracking.
This guide covers how to set up the Claude Code VS Code extension with Portkey. If you prefer to use Claude Code in the terminal, see Getting Started with Claude Code (Terminal CLI) instead.
Table of Contents
•	Appropriate Use
•	Safety and Data Protection 
o	What You Should Know
•	Understanding Costs: Claude Code Is an Agentic System, Not a Chatbot 
o	What Claude Code Is Designed For
o	What Claude Code Is NOT Designed For
o	Monitoring Your Usage
•	Installation and Setup 
o	Step 1: Install the Extension
o	Step 2: Configure Portkey Environment Variables
o	Step 3: Open Claude Code
o	Step 4: Test Your Setup
•	Tips for Using Claude Code in VS Code
•	Known Limitations
•	Links
Appropriate Use
Claude Code in VS Code can assist with a wide range of development tasks:
•	Writing and editing code - Generate functions, classes, and files from natural language descriptions, all within your editor.
•	Debugging - Describe errors or unexpected behavior and get help identifying and fixing issues.
•	Refactoring - Improve code structure, update patterns, or reorganize files.
•	Code review - Get feedback on code quality, security, and best practices.
•	Exploring codebases - Ask Claude to explain unfamiliar code or trace how features work.
•	Git operations - Commit, branch, and manage version control conversationally.
As with all AI tools, always review code generated by Claude before running or deploying it. AI-generated code can contain bugs, security vulnerabilities, or incorrect logic.
Safety and Data Protection
When the Claude Code extension is configured to use Rutgers’ Portkey gateway, all API requests are routed through the university’s enterprise instance:
•	Your code and conversations are not used to train AI models.
•	API usage is tracked for accounting purposes through the Portkey dashboard.
What You Should Know
•	Do not use Claude Code on projects that contain highly sensitive data, such as PHI, Social Security numbers, or financial credentials.
•	Review all code changes before accepting them.
•	Protect your Portkey API key. The key will be stored in your VS Code settings file. Make sure this file is not committed to a public repository.
Understanding Costs: Claude Code Is an Agentic System, Not a Chatbot
The Claude Code extension is fundamentally different from conversational AI tools like ChatGPT, Copilot, or Gemini. It is an agentic system - meaning it autonomously reads files, runs commands, searches your codebase, makes edits, and chains together multiple operations to complete a task. A single prompt can trigger dozens or even hundreds of API calls behind the scenes as Claude explores your project, plans an approach, and implements changes.
This means Claude Code can consume significant API credits very quickly. Every file it reads, every search it runs, and every response it generates costs tokens. A complex task that takes Claude several minutes of autonomous work can easily cost more in a single session than an entire day of conversational chatbot usage.
What Claude Code Is Designed For
Claude Code is purpose-built for complex, multi-step software development tasks where its agentic capabilities provide real value:
•	Implementing a new feature across multiple files in a codebase
•	Debugging a complex issue that requires reading and tracing code across many files
•	Refactoring an entire module or migrating a codebase to a new pattern
•	Setting up a project with build configuration, tests, and CI/CD pipelines
•	Reviewing a pull request and providing detailed, code-aware feedback
What Claude Code Is NOT Designed For
Do not use Claude Code for tasks that a simple chatbot can handle. These tasks waste significant resources because Claude Code’s agentic infrastructure activates regardless of how simple your question is:
•	General knowledge questions - “What is the weather today?” or “Explain the difference between TCP and UDP”
•	Simple code snippets - “Write me a quick Python script to convert CSV to JSON”
•	Learning and tutorials - “Explain how to get started with Python Flask”
•	Writing and editing - “Draft an email to my team about the upcoming meeting”
•	Brainstorming - “Give me ideas for my research project”
For these types of tasks, use ChatGPT Edu, Microsoft Copilot, Google Gemini, or the Portkey APIs directly - they are far more cost-effective for conversational and single-turn tasks.
Monitoring Your Usage
Keep an eye on your API spending by checking the Portkey dashboard regularly. If you are unsure whether a task warrants using Claude Code, consider whether the task requires Claude to autonomously explore and modify your codebase. If it does not, use a less expensive tool.
Installation and Setup
Step 1: Install the Extension
1.	Open VS Code.
2.	Open the Extensions panel by pressing Ctrl+Shift+X (Windows/Linux) or Cmd+Shift+X (macOS).
3.	Search for “Claude Code for VS Code” - make sure the publisher says Anthropic.
4.	Click Install.
Step 2: Configure Portkey Environment Variables
1.	Open the Command Palette by pressing Ctrl+Shift+P (Windows/Linux) or Cmd+Shift+P (macOS).
2.	Type “Open User Settings” and select Preferences: Open User Settings (not the JSON version).
3.	In the Search Settings box, type “claude code”.
4.	Scroll down to find Claude Code: Environment Variables and click “Edit in settings.json”.
5.	In the settings.json file, locate the claudeCode.environmentVariables section and configure it as follows:
"claudeCode.environmentVariables": [
    {
        "ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL": "https://api.portkey.ai",
        "ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN": "YOUR_PORTKEY_API_KEY",
        "ANTHROPIC_CUSTOM_HEADERS": "x-portkey-api-key: YOUR_PORTKEY_API_KEY\nx-portkey-provider: @claude-models",
        "ANTHROPIC_DEFAULT_SONNET_MODEL": "claude-sonnet-4-6",
        "ANTHROPIC_DEFAULT_OPUS_MODEL": "claude-opus-4-6",
        "ANTHROPIC_DEFAULT_HAIKU_MODEL": "claude-haiku-4-5-20251001"
    }
]
Replace both instances of YOUR_PORTKEY_API_KEY with your actual Portkey API key from the Rutgers Account Tools Self-Service area, within the Portkey card (once you have a Portkey account activated). You can also retrieve model providers and model names from this same card.
1.	Save the file (Ctrl+S or Cmd+S).
Configuration Explained
Setting explanations
Setting	Purpose
ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL	Redirects Claude Code to send requests through Portkey instead of directly to Anthropic.
ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN	Authenticates your requests with Portkey.
ANTHROPIC_CUSTOM_HEADERS	Passes your Portkey API key and specifies the @claude-models provider for routing.
ANTHROPIC_DEFAULT_*_MODEL	Specifies which Claude model to use for each tier.
Step 3: Open Claude Code
There are two ways to open Claude Code in VS Code:
•	Claude icon - If you have a file open, look for the Claude icon in the editor and click it to open the Claude Code panel.
•	Chat panel - Click the chat icon in the activity bar (left sidebar), then switch between “Chat” (GitHub Copilot) and “Claude Code” at the top of the panel.
Step 4: Test Your Setup
With a project folder open in VS Code, try a simple prompt in the Claude Code panel:
Explain the structure of this project
If Claude responds with an analysis of your project files, your Portkey integration is configured correctly.
Tips for Using Claude Code in VS Code
•	Open a project folder first. Claude Code works best when you have a project folder open in VS Code, giving it context about your codebase.
•	Use natural language. Describe what you want in plain language - Claude will figure out which files to read, edit, or create.
•	Review changes before accepting. Claude Code shows you diffs of proposed changes. Review them carefully before approving.
•	Combine with other VS Code features. You can use Claude Code alongside VS Code’s built-in debugger, terminal, source control, and other extensions.
•	Switch between Chat and Claude Code. If you also have GitHub Copilot, you can switch between the two in the chat panel depending on your needs.
Known Limitations
Since you are connecting through Portkey rather than signing into a Claude account with a Pro or Max subscription:
•	Remote Control is not available. Features requiring a direct Anthropic account connection will not work through Portkey.
•	Slack integration is not available. The Slack app requires a direct connection to an Anthropic account and cannot be used with Portkey.
•	Some account-specific features may be unavailable. Features tied to Anthropic subscription tiers may not be accessible when routing through a third-party API gateway.
Links
•	Claude Code for VS Code - Visual Studio Marketplace
•	Claude Code VS Code Documentation
•	Portkey Dashboard
•	Getting Started with Portkey at Rutgers
•	Getting Started with Claude Code (Terminal CLI)
•	Getting Started with Claude Desktop
•	AI at Rutgers - Office of Information Technology
" KB0019478 AI Platform and API Services How to Use Portkey APIs "
Portkey provides a unified API gateway that allows you to access multiple AI models (OpenAI GPT, Anthropic Claude, and more) through a single, consistent interface. This guide walks you through making API calls to Portkey using cURL and Python, the two most common methods for interacting with AI models programmatically.
Before following this guide, make sure you have a Portkey account and API key. If you have not set up your access yet, see Getting Started with Portkey at Rutgers first.
Table of Contents
•	Safety and Data Protection
•	Using Portkey with cURL 
o	Step 1: Get Your Credentials
o	Step 2: Make a Request
o	Switching Models
•	Using Portkey with Python 
o	Step 1: Set Up Your Project
o	Step 2: Install Dependencies
o	Step 3: Get Your Credentials
o	Step 4: Create a .env File
o	Step 5: Create Your Python Script
o	Step 6: Run It
o	Switching Models
o	Using System Messages
o	Multi-Turn Conversations
•	Tips for Working with Portkey APIs
•	Tips for Getting Started
•	Links
Safety and Data Protection
When using Portkey APIs through your Rutgers account, your requests are routed through the university’s enterprise Portkey instance. Your data is protected by enterprise agreements and is not used to train AI models.
•	Protect your API key. Never commit your Portkey API key to a public code repository, share it in emails, or hardcode it in scripts that others can access. Use environment variables or .env files instead.
•	Do not send highly sensitive data such as protected health information (PHI), Social Security numbers, or financial account numbers through any AI API.
•	Review AI-generated output carefully. Model responses can contain errors, biased content, or fabricated information.
Using Portkey with cURL
cURL is a command-line tool for making HTTP requests. It is available by default on macOS and Linux, and can be installed on Windows. This is the quickest way to test your Portkey access.
Step 1: Get Your Credentials
1.	Sign in to the Rutgers Account Tools Self-Service area, within the Portkey card (once you have a Portkey account activated).
2.	Create your Portkey API key and save it.
Step 2: Make a Request
Open your terminal and run the following command, replacing YOUR_PORTKEY_API_KEY with your actual API key:
curl https://api.portkey.ai/v1/chat/completions \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "x-portkey-api-key: YOUR_PORTKEY_API_KEY" \
  -H "x-portkey-provider: @openai-prod" \
  -d '{
    "model": "gpt-4o",
    "messages": [
      { "role": "system", "content": "You are a helpful assistant." },
      { "role": "user", "content": "Hello!" }
    ]
  }'
You should receive a JSON response containing the model’s reply. The key fields in the response are:
•	choices[0].message.content - The model’s text response.
•	usage.prompt_tokens and usage.completion_tokens - Token counts for the request and response.
Switching Models
To use a different model or provider, change the x-portkey-provider header and the model field. For example, to use Anthropic’s Claude:
 curl https://api.portkey.ai/v1/chat/completions \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "x-portkey-api-key: YOUR_PORTKEY_API_KEY" \
  -H "x-portkey-provider: @claude-models" \
  -d '{
    "model": "claude-sonnet-4-6",
    "messages": [
      { "role": "user", "content": "Hello!" }
    ]
  }'
Using Portkey with Python
Python is the most popular language for working with AI APIs. The Portkey Python SDK provides a clean, familiar interface that is compatible with the OpenAI SDK pattern.
Step 1: Set Up Your Project
Create a project directory and a Python virtual environment:
mkdir myproject
cd myproject
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
On Windows, activate the virtual environment with:
.venv\Scripts\activate
Step 2: Install Dependencies
pip install portkey-ai python-dotenv
•	portkey-ai - The official Portkey Python SDK.
•	python-dotenv - Loads environment variables from a .env file so you don’t have to hardcode your API key.
Step 3: Get Your Credentials
1.	Sign in to the Rutgers Account Tools Self-Service area, within the Portkey card (once you have a Portkey account activated).
2.	Create your Portkey API key and save it.
Step 4: Create a .env File
In your project directory, create a file named .env with the following content:
PORTKEY_API_KEY=your-portkey-api-key
Replace your-portkey-api-key with your actual Portkey API key.
Important: If you are using Git, add .env to your .gitignore file to prevent accidentally committing your API key to a repository.
Step 5: Create Your Python Script
Create a file named test_portkey.py with the following content:
import os
from dotenv import load_dotenv
from portkey_ai import Portkey
load_dotenv()
client = Portkey(
    api_key=os.environ["PORTKEY_API_KEY"],
    provider="@openai-prod"
)
response = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="gpt-4o",
    messages=[
        {"role": "user", "content": "Say hello in one sentence."}
    ],
)
print(response.choices[0].message.content)
Step 6: Run It
python test_portkey.py
You should see the model’s response printed to your terminal.
Switching Models
To use a different model, change the provider parameter when creating the client and update the model in the API call. For example, to use Anthropic’s Claude:
client = Portkey(
    api_key=os.environ["PORTKEY_API_KEY"],
    provider="@claude-models"
)

response = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="claude-sonnet-4-6",
    messages=[
        {"role": "user", "content": "Say hello in one sentence."}
    ],
)

print(response.choices[0].message.content)
Using System Messages
System messages set the behavior and personality of the AI model. Add a system message as the first item in the messages list:
response = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="gpt-4o",
    messages=[
        {"role": "system", "content": "You are a helpful academic writing assistant. Respond in a clear, professional tone."},
        {"role": "user", "content": "Help me write an abstract for a paper about renewable energy policy."}
    ],
)
Multi-Turn Conversations
To have a multi-turn conversation, include the full conversation history in the messages list:
response = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="gpt-4o",
    messages=[
        {"role": "system", "content": "You are a helpful assistant."},
        {"role": "user", "content": "What is photosynthesis?"},
        {"role": "assistant", "content": "Photosynthesis is the process by which plants convert sunlight, water, and carbon dioxide into glucose and oxygen."},
        {"role": "user", "content": "What role does chlorophyll play in this process?"}
    ],
)
Tips for Working with Portkey APIs
•	Start simple. Get a basic request working before adding complexity like system messages, multi-turn conversations, or streaming.
•	Use environment variables. Never hardcode API keys in your scripts. Use .env files and python-dotenv, or set environment variables in your shell.
•	Check your API usage. After making requests, visit the Rutgers Account Tools Self-Service area and looking for your Portkey card (once you have a Portkey account) to view your usage.
•	Handle errors gracefully. Wrap API calls in try/except blocks to handle network errors, rate limits, and other issues.
•	Consult available models. The models and providers available through Rutgers’ Portkey instance may differ from public Portkey documentation. Check your dashboard for a current list.
Tips for Getting Started
•	Start with a simple test. Use the cURL example above to verify your access before building anything complex.
•	Use environment variables for your API key. Store your Portkey API key in an environment variable (e.g., PORTKEY_API_KEY) or a .env file rather than hardcoding it in your scripts.
•	Check which models are available. The models available through Rutgers’ Portkey instance may differ from what is shown in public Portkey documentation. Check your dashboard or contact your administrator for a current list.
Links
•	Getting Started with Portkey
•	Portkey API Documentation
•	Portkey Python SDK on PyPI
•	AI at Rutgers - Office of Information Technology
" KB0019515 ANCOR Support ANCOR Catalog: Creating Deep Links "
This article outlines the process for creating a URL that links directly to a specific page in our WebReg catalog. Used for a specific branch, course, section, or category of courses. The URL can be displayed on your department website or added to marketing materials sent to clients. 
The following URL parameters can be used directly to filter catalog search results for:  
•	Branch
•	Course
•	Section
•	Category
Branch
You can filter the catalog by adding your branchID# to the URL. This will display all open course sections for your branch. 
To locate the branch ID #, please email the ANCOR help desk. 
Example: https://ce-catalog.rutgers.edu/searchResults.cfm?branchid=1    
Error! Filename not specified. 
Course
You can filter the catalog for a specific course by adding the couID# (Course ID Number) to the URL. This will display all open course sections for that specific course. 
To locate the couID#: 
1.	Go to: Main Menu > Services > Courses.
2.	Select the course to display.
3.	In the URL for that course, the couID# is displayed.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Add the couID# to the end of this URL String: https://ce-catalog.rutgers.edu/searchResults.cfm?couid=XXXXX for your custom URL. 
Example: https://ce-catalog.rutgers.edu/searchResults.cfm?couid=28353  
Error! Filename not specified. 
Section
You can filter the catalog for a specific course section by adding the schID# to the URL. This will display only the specific course section. 
To locate the schID#: 
1.	Go to the Course Section > WebReg panel 
2.	In the URL for that section, the schID# is displayed.

Error! Filename not specified. 
Example: https://ce-catalog.rutgers.edu/coursedisplay.cfm?schID=96315 
Error! Filename not specified. 
Category
You can filter the catalog for a specific course category by adding the catID# to the URL. This will display all open course sections for that specific course category. 
To locate the catID#: 
1.	Go to Main Menu > Services > Courses

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Identify the course category to display.
3.	Navigate to Main Menu > Selects > Course Categories.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click the pencil icon to open the course category.
Example: https://ce-catalog.rutgers.edu/coursedisplay.cfm?catID=108 
Error! Filename not specified. 
" KB0019162 ANCOR Support ANCOR Clients: How to add a missing assignment and/or payment in ANCOR due to a Webreg error "
This article outlines how to add a missing assignment and/or payment in case of an unsuccessful redirect during the online registration process. On occasion, an undetected break in the connection between the ANCOR registration system and the payment gateway occurs during the online Web Registration process. In these cases, a client successfully registers in ANCOR, is sent to the payment gateway, and successfully submits payment – but the transaction details are never sent back to ANCOR.
Finding Transaction Record
1.	In NelNet Quickpay, confirm the transaction/payment by logging into your admin account.  
1.	
1.	Go to Find Transaction and search by Date, Date Range, Amount Paid, or Client Name. Note: Client Name is case sensitive and must be entered as submitted by the client at the time of payment. 
Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Important note regarding the additional step to locate transactions prior to 2/1/2023: For Transactions prior to 2/1/2023, you must EXPAND the Additional Criteria section at the bottom of the Find Transaction page and check the box for "Rutgers Commerce Manager Card Processor-TSYS. 
2.	Use the information found under Transaction Details to update the client’s assignment/payment in ANCOR manually.
Add New Assignment
1.	In ANCOR, click Client from the Main Menu.  
2.	Search for Client. 
3.	Open client record by clicking on the pencil icon. 
Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Go to Assignments.
5.	Click Add Assignments. 
Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Follow the prompts:  
1.	Select Registered by option. 
2.	Select the appropriate Service Type – (Ex. Courses, Conferences) 
3.	Search and Click on Course/Title 
4.	Course Sections will appear. Click the Blue plus sign on the correct Course Section. 
5.	Click Next. 
6.	Confirm registration information (Dates, Enrollment Status). 
7.	Click Next and Submit.
7.	This will create the registration assignment, generate an invoice, and reflect a balance due.  
Add New Payment
1.	In ANCOR, click Client from the main menu. 
2.	Search for Client. 
3.	Open the client record by clicking on the paper icon. 
4.	Click Payments. 
5.	Click +Add Payment. 
6.	A pop up window will appear. 
1.	Invoice: use drop down to select Invoice number. 
2.	Client Assignment: use drop down to select course offering. 
3.	Payment Type: use drop down to select confirmed payment method (ie. Visa, Cash, Check). 
4.	Revenue Item: use drop down to select (Note: you may add/update Revenue Items under Selects>>Selects N-Z>>Revenue Items). 
5.	Click +Create/Continue to add payment. 
7.	Once the Payment is created, a new page for the transaction will appear. 
1.	Confirm the Course Code. 
2.	Confirm Invoice Number. 
3.	Confirm Payment Amount. 
4.	Optional: Add a MEMO stating this was manually entered due to a WebReg Error. 
8.	Expand the Details section and add the transaction details from the NelNet/QuikPay to record the missing information. Click Edit to enter information. 
1.	Confirm Payment Type (ie. VISA, Cash, Check). 
2.	Confirm the Revenue Item.  
3.	Enter the Last 4 of the credit card number (from NelNet Quikpay). 
4.	Add the Credit Card Transaction Tracking Number – this is the CONFIRMATION # in NelNet QuikPay. 
9.	Expand the Payer/Billing section to add payer information if other than the client.
10.	Click Save to record the payment and remove the balance due.
" KB0019163 ANCOR Support ANCOR Clients: How to change the Enrollment Status from waitlist to enrolled/active "
This article outlines how to create the Email Waitlist Marketing template and how to update a client's Enrollment Status from Applicant/Waiting List to Enrolled/Active. This is used in the Admin module when emailing clients on the waiting list about an enrollment status change. Also outlined is the process after a client's enrollment status has been updated.
1.	Click the Tools icon in the upper right corner.
2.	Click on Create Email Templates under Marketing Functions.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	NOTE: The Email Waitlist template should already be listed. If not, please follow the steps below. If already listed, jump down to the Updating Enrollment Status section.
4.	Click New Email Template.
5.	Enter/Select the following information in the template fields: 
o	Template Name: "Email Waitlist" 
	The template name is reserved and must be entered exactly as written to trigger the email when changing a client's enrollment status from Applicant/Waitlist to Enrolled/Active.
o	Topic: "Registration"
o	Target: "Clients"
o	Subject: "Registration Confirmed"

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Click +Create to save the email template.
Updating Enrollment Status
1.	Navigate to the client's profile. The change must be made under Clients > Assignments.** 
o	**Important: In order to trigger the Email notification, the Assignment Status change to Enrolled/Active must be done through the Client's account and not under Courses > Section > Enrollment.**
2.	Click Assignments. 
3.	Click on the pencil icon for the relevant assignment.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Change enrollment status from Applicant/Waiting List to Enrolled/Active. 
5.	Click Save. 
6.	A pop-up will appear to send an enrollment notification. Click Yes.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Clients will receive an email confirming their enrollment status change. A green banner will appear on the upper right of the screen to confirm that the assignment was successfully changed. 
Next Steps - Invoice/Payment
If your course/conference has multiple fee options, you will need to manually update the invoice for the client whom you moved off the waiting list.
When a client registers for a course/conference through our website and is added to the waiting list, ANCOR adds them to your Enrollment List as Applicant/Waiting List and creates a blank invoice, since no fees were selected and no funds were collected at the time of registration.
 
When space becomes available, and the client's Enrollment Status is changed from Applicant/Waiting List to Enrolled/Active, the system will prompt you to send an email to the client. Once the client's enrollment status has been updated, you will need to update the invoice created at the time of registration, which is blank.
1.	Go to the client's account and click Invoices.
2.	Select the Invoice generated at the time of registration (this will be completely blank).
3.	Navigate to the Line Items tab and click + Add Line Items.
4.	You will enter the information similar to what you have under the Course Section Fees (Item (revenue item), Session, Service (course section), Rate (fee amount), Income Account (select revenue account), and add notes as applicable). 
o	VERY IMPORTANT: Select a Revenue Account so that when the client pays, the funds are properly posted to your account.
5.	If you have multiple fees, repeat the steps above to add all the applicable fees.
6.	Adding the line items will automatically tag the correct course assignment.
7.	Once all fees have been added, you may email the updated invoice to the client. 
1.	Go to the Invoices tab and select the kebab menu (3 dots).
2.	Select Send Invoice to email the client a copy of the updated invoice.
8.	In addition, you may create a new Email Template with instructions for clients on how to log into ANCOR and pay their invoice. 
o	Marketing Email Templates are listed under the Tools menu (chocolate box icon in the top right).
" KB0019166 ANCOR Support ANCOR Clients: How to create and manage member profiles "
This article outlines how clients can add individuals (e.g., employees, coworkers, family members) to a primary account holder’s member list. The primary account holder can then manage member relationships, add/view registrations, generate/pay invoices, and update profiles for all member accounts. Each member has a unique client profile and can also operate independently of the member relationship.
Member profiles – Admin
Managing member accounts from the ANCOR Admin tool allows admins to link or delete members for existing accounts. A client can be a member of more than one primary account. Members under a primary account will not see each other's account information. When creating a new client account, use the search function to ensure a client account does not already exist, preventing duplicate account profiles. 
1.	Click Clients from the Main Menu  
2.	Search for primary client (last name, first name)  
3.	Click the View icon to open the client profile  
4.	Click the More drop-down and select Members  
5.	Click +ADD MEMBER TO THIS ACCOUNT 
6.	A pop-up window will appear: 
o	Adding a Member: begin typing the last name, first name, or Client ID# of the member you would like linked to this account. Both will be visible when linking the member account.
o	To ensure you are selecting the correct client record, you may want to look up the member account and make a note of the Client ID.
o	Relationship: using the drop-down lis,t select the appropriate relationship (i.e., Employee or Other). 
Error! Filename not specified.
•	 
Sample use case
An existing client is already registered with a balance due, but another client wishes to pay the invoice online. Linking the existing client to the payor’s client profile as a member allows this primary account holder to log in and pay the invoice.
Member profiles – WebReg
For Advising clients on the Webreg process.
NOTE: For NEW MEMBER ACCOUNTS only. Existing accounts cannot be linked as members through WebReg. If the person already has an ANCOR account, admins will need to manually link the account as a member under the primary account. This is also applicable to deleting member accounts. 
Upon login, a client can add new member accounts or manage existing Member accounts.
1.	Click the MyAccount link and select Manage Members from the drop-down list.
2.	Click +Add New Member to create and link a new client profile.
Error! Filename not specified.
Alternatively, a client can add a new member account during the registration process by clicking Need to register for someone else? Click here at the bottom of the course page prior to clicking the Add to Cart button.  
This will allow the primary client to create a new profile for the member account. Once the account is created, it will be automatically linked to the primary account.
" KB0019167 ANCOR Support ANCOR Clients: How to enable the WebReg drop registrations feature "
This article outlines how a client can DROP an existing registration via the MyAccount on our WebReg module. This option is enabled at the branch level and is not contingent upon other branches using it; however, once turned on, it applies to any/all course sections for your entire branch. You cannot apply it only to specific course sections.
If you are interested in utilizing the Drop feature, the ANCOR Helpdesk System Administrators must enable this for you. Please first review below, then email the help desk if interested, ancorhelp@rutgers.edu.
There are two (2) possible DROP methods that can be used:
Preferred Method: Change Status
This method changes the status of the Assignment to Did Not Complete-Dropped.  NOTE: Drops are not permitted beyond the start date. You must determine how many days before the start you will allow the client to drop. After that time, the DROP feature will automatically be disabled for that section. 
When this method is used, invoices and payments are not automatically adjusted or refunded. Invoice and payment adjustments must be performed manually. For a refresher on refunds and other adjustments: ANCOR Refunds
1.	When enabled, the client will log in to their account using their username and password, then navigate to My Account in the upper right and select Registrations from the drop-down menu.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	The client will then see a blue DROP hyperlink to the right of any eligible course on the Registrations page, where all of their assignments are displayed. Again, the client must be logged in to view this page.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	After selecting Drop, the client will review the Drop Registration page and confirm by clicking Drop again under OPTIONS.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	When a client drops a course, the status on the Registrations page will change to “Inactive.” In ANCOR, the client's Assignment status will be updated to "Did Not Complete – Dropped". 
5.	The client will receive a confirmation email from ANCORHelp@rutgers.edu with the subject line: "Drop confirmation via web registration".
6.	An email is also sent to your Branch Notification Email address from NoReply@Xenegrade with the same subject line/email content. 
Alternate Method: Delete
This method deletes the assignment entirely. No historical record of registration.
NOTE: This method can only be used if there are NO invoices and/or payments, NO Case Notes linked to the Assignment, and NO Attendance records.  
Drops are not permitted beyond the start date. You must determine how many days before the start date you want to allow the client to drop. After that time, the DROP feature will be disabled for that section.
1.	When enabled, the client will log in to their account using their username and password, then navigate to My Account in the upper right and select Registrations from the drop-down menu. 
2.	The client will then see a blue DROP hyperlink to the right of any eligible course on the Registrations page, where all of their assignments are displayed. Again, the client must be logged in to view this page. 
3.	After selecting Drop, the client will review the Drop Registration page and confirm by clicking Drop again under OPTIONS. The assignment will then be deleted from the client’s Registration Details page and from the ANCOR backend. 
4.	As with the Change Status method, the client will receive a confirmation email from ANCORHelp@docs with the subject line: “Drop confirmation via web registration.” An email is also sent to your Branch Notification email address from NoReply@Xenegrade with the same subject line/email content. 
REMINDER: If you are interested in this feature, the ANCOR Helpdesk System Administrators must enable this for you.  
Please email the ANCOR Helpdesk with the subject line "Enable Drop Feature". You must include:
•	Which method you would like to use. 
•	How many days before the start date of any course you wish to expire the DROP option. 
" KB0019169 ANCOR Support ANCOR Clients: How to reassign invoice payments "
This article outlines how to reassign a payment. This function moves an existing payment to a different invoice, for the same or a different client.
1.	Search for the Client. Click the View Details icon to open the Client profile.
Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click on Payments.
3.	Click on the kebab menu for the payment record. Select Reassign Payment.
Error! Filename not specified.
4.	The Reassign Payment pop-up workflow will display. Enter the Target Client name (last name, first name).
5.	Click NEXT to proceed to the next step to complete the transfer process.
6.	Use the drop-down menu to select the Target Client - Course/Invoice# to apply the payment. (Note: The Target Client should already be registered for the course).
7.	Click NEXT to continue to the final step.
Error! Filename not specified.
8.	The final step is to confirm that all the source and target client, course, and invoice information are correct. Once reviewed, click SAVE to reassign the payment.
" KB0019170 ANCOR Support ANCOR Clients: How to transfer a registration/payment – client to client "
This article will outline how to transfer a registration/payment between two clients.
IMPORTANT: If the originating course Assignment has Fee Options, see the addendum instructions below before beginning the transfer process.
1.	Search for Client. Click View Details to open the Client profile.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click on the Assignments tab.
3.	Click on the kebab menu (3 dots) next to the assignment being transferred. Select Transfer Registration.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Use the Transfer to Client drop-down to enter the new Client name and select the Client ID-Client Name to which the assignment will be transferred.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Click Submit to complete the Registration Transfer. This will transfer the following: Attendance, Payments, Invoices, associated with the registration/assignment.
ADDENDUM: Fee Options
1.	If the source client has Fee Options listed on their Assignment, you must remove them and save prior to initiating the transfer registration process.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Once the Fee Option(s) have been removed and saved, go to the client's Assignment list and click the 3 dots (kebab menu) to initiate the Transfer Registration process outlined above.
3.	Confirm that the Assignment, Invoice, and Payments have been transferred to the new Client.
4.	Lastly, locate the new Client's Assignment and add the Fee Options back.
" KB0019184 ANCOR Support ANCOR Clients: Online registration instructions "
This article outlines the steps for a client to register online via our WebReg site. You may share these instructions with your clients.
1.	Navigate to the Continuing Education Catalog.
2.	If you are new, click Create Account, fill in the required information (designated by a red asterisk*), and click Submit to complete the account creation process.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	If you already have an account, click Login My Account. 
o	Click Forgot Username if you need to retrieve your username.
o	Click Forgot Password to reset the password on your account.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Once you are logged into your account, click Course Search on the left-hand menu.

Error! Filename not specified. 
5.	Here, you can search for the course using keywords or by the Continuing Education department. (If you have been given a direct link to register for your course, follow the link and skip to step 8.)   
o	To filter by keyword, enter a course title or subject you are seeking to find courses in.
o	To filter by department, select the department from the drop-down menu.
6.	Click Search to view the results.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Scroll through the results and locate the course you would like to register for.
8.	Click the Course Title.

Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Here you will find the Course description, schedule, and more. Example:

Error! Filename not specified. 
10.	When you are ready to register for the course, scroll down to the bottom of the page. Click Add to Cart.

Error! Filename not specified.
o	If there are multiple registration fee options, select the checkbox of the fee(s) that apply to you before clicking Add to Cart. 
o	If you are registering for someone else, click the link Need to Register for someone else? Click Here to create a Member profile that will be linked to your account. Once the Member account is created, you may select that Member and add the course to the cart to ensure the registration is listed under their name.
11.	Review your cart. To process a Promo/Discount Code – enter the code in the box under the course title and click Recalculate. 

Error! Filename not specified.
12.	Click Checkout to proceed. 
13.	Review and accept the General Refund Policy.

Error! Filename not specified.
14.	Click the check box next to General Refund Policy to confirm your acceptance.
15.	Click Place Order to proceed to enter the payment information.
16.	You will be redirected to our payment system to enter your credit card or electronic check information.
17.	Review payment amount.
18.	Click Next – Payment Method to proceed.

Error! Filename not specified.
19.	Select Payment Method.

Error! Filename not specified.
o	Option 1: Credit/Debit Card.
o	Option 2: Electronic Check (echeck). 
20.	Enter the payment information and complete the payment following the on-screen prompts. (Please allow a moment for the payment to process.)
21.	Once the payment is complete, you will receive a registration confirmation on-screen and by email. You will also receive a payment receipt.
Note: For course-related questions, please contact the Continuing Education department offering/delivering the course.
" KB0019171 ANCOR Support ANCOR Communications: How to create automatic scheduled emails "
This article outlines how to create an automated email scheduler to send an email before or after a course section starts or ends.  This option is very appropriate for reminding clients or instructors of a course about to start. 
Quick Path: Tools Menu > Marketing Functions > Create Email Templates
Scheduling an Email Template
1.	Once logged into ANCOR, click the Tools icon (chocolate box) in the top right of the page.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click on Create Email Templates under Marketing Functions.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click the Pencil icon next to the template you want to schedule.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click Edit on the Scheduler panel.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Use this tab to schedule the message delivery. 
1.	Scheduled: Yes
2.	Include Course Info: Yes (this will include the course name, date, and time information in the email template)
3.	Schedule Date: Course Start (date)/Course End (date) or Registration (date) - this is used in conjunction with the Days Before/After Date selection 
	Select the Schedule Date & the number of Days Before/After Date (positive numbers are after the Schedule Date & negative numbers are before the Schedule Date)
	Example: Schedule Date: Registration & Days After = 1 (the email will be sent to any registrant one day after they register). Using the Course Start/Course End will send to those on the roster for the date scheduled. 
4.	Course Categories: Choose the appropriate categories for your course. You can choose more than one. (Create Course Categories under Selects and tag courses with the new category)
5.	After the emails are sent, a notification email is sent to your department's email address listing the templates and clients who received emails.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	To create multiple messages, click the kebab menu (3 dots) and select Clone.
7.	This will create a copy of the email template.
8.	Follow the steps above for the new 'cloned' message.

Error! Filename not specified.
Note: You may need to create a new Course Category (under Selects). Remember to tag the Course with the new Course Category.
Creating a new Course Category
1.	Go to Selects from the Main Menu.
2.	Click on Course Categories, found in the left-hand column.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click +New Course Category.
4.	Enter the information in the pop-up window and click +Create to save.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Remember to tag the Course with the new Course Category.
" KB0019173 ANCOR Support ANCOR Communications: How to send a mass email to a course roster "
This article will outline how to create Marketing templates to send a mass email to course section enrollments based on the client's enrollment status.
1.	To send a mass email to the course roster, navigate to the Course Section in ANCOR.
2.	From the Section Information panel, click Actions. 
3.	Select Send Email Clients.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	A workflow will pop up. 
5.	Select the Enrollment Status you would like to email. (ie. Enrolled/Active; This will send an email to those registrants with an enrollment status of Enrolled/Active ONLY).
6.	Next, select a pre-created Email Template or manually type in an Email Message. 
7.	Click Next to continue.

Error! Filename not specified.
8.	Enter Email CC (optional) and enter Email Subject. 
9.	Confirm Recipients (list based on the selected Enrollment Status).
10.	Click Send Email.

Error! Filename not specified.
11.	An email will be sent immediately.
" KB0019176 ANCOR Support ANCOR Courses: How to closeout a course section "
This article outlines the procedures for closing out a Course Section and updating clients' Assignment Status.
The following steps are required to close out a course section:
1.	Updating Course Section Status
2.	Updating Client Status/CEUs/Grades - Individually (per client)
3.	Updating Client Status/CEUs/Grades - Bulk (per course section)
To maintain accurate noncredit student records, the following procedures are required for all courses/programs and enrollment data managed in ANCOR.  
•	All course offerings must be closed upon completion; and,  
•	All learners must have an updated enrollment status for each course they participated in -- e.g., "Completed-Satisfactory." 
Only students with accurate, updated status will appear on Noncredit Transcripts. This remains the best practice for accurate student data management across CE, but it is now required for ANCOR users.
Updating Course Section Status
Following the end date of a course section, it is important that you properly update the Course Status to remove it from the catalog. It also provides you with an accurate historical record of courses that have been cancelled, completed, etc.
Course Status is updated at the Section level.  
1.	Navigate to the course section and then click EDIT on the Section panel.  
2.	For the Course Status field, select the status (ie, Completed); select other status when appropriate.  
3.	Click SAVE at the top of the Section panel to commit changes.

Error! Filename not specified.
Updating Client Status
You may update client status individually or in bulk for the entire course roster.
Individual Client Update
1.	Locate the client by clicking on Clients and searching by Name or Client ID#. 
2.	Click the pencil icon to Edit the client account.  
3.	Click the Assignments tab to view the client’s assignments.  
4.	Click the pencil icon to Edit next to the assignment to update.
5.	Change the Enrollment Status (select the appropriate status – ie. Completed-Satisfactory).  
6.	To add Grades or Credits, expand the Grade/Outcome panel and click EDIT. 
o	NOTE: credit types & credit values should already be added to the course section under More > Credits.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Enter Grades (as applicable).
8.	Earned Credits – enter number of credits for completed course (as applicable).
9.	Credit Type – use the drop-down menu to select a credit type already defined.
10.	Ensure that the Include on Transcript field is toggled to YES. 
11.	Click SAVE on each panel or SAVE ALL on the Assignment Information panel to save your changes.
Bulk Course Enrollment Status Update
CHANGE STATUS: This function allows you to change the Assignments Status and End Date for an entire course section.
1.	Click on the Tools button. 
2.	Click CHANGE STATUS under Course Functions.
3.	Select the Course Section to update from the drop-down menu. You may type in the text field to narrow down the results.
4.	Select Old Status from drop down menu (ie. Enrolled/Active). 
5.	Select New Status from drop down menu (ie. Completed-Satisfactory). 
6.	Enter New End Date (as applicable – this would change the course end date). 
7.	Click NEXT to proceed with the workflow. 
8.	The number of enrollments to be updated will appear. Review and click the check box to Confirm. 
9.	Click SUBMIT to complete the bulk update for the entire course section.
EXIT ASSIGNMENTS: This function allows you to add or modify Grade/Outcomes information for an entire course roster. (bulk update of Enrollment Status, Credits, Grades, Hours, etc.)
1.	Click on the Tools button. 
2.	Click EXIT ASSIGNMENTS under Course Functions. (Setting default values is optional. Existing values will not be overwritten.)

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Select the Course Section from the drop down. You may type in the text field to narrow down the results. 
1.	The first step of the workflow allows you to set Default values for the entire roster at once. 
	Course Hours, Credits, Grades.
	Enrollment Status - select the appropriate entry from the drop-down list. (ie. Completed-Satisfactory).
2.	Setting default values is optional. Existing values currently on a client record will not be overwritten.
3.	Click NEXT to proceed through the workflow.
4.	The entire course roster will be displayed. Using this workflow, you may update each client individually. 
1.	Enter Hours Attended, Days Attended, Grades, Earned Credits, Credit Type, Status Code or Completion Code, as applicable for each registrant.
2.	NOTE: Earned Credits can only have up to 2 decimal places (ie. 2.50) and should match the number of Credits offered for the section.
3.	After you have entered the information for each client, click on SAVE/CLOSE to complete your update.
NOTE: Hours, Credits, Grades, and Enrollment Status are all stored on the Client’s Assignment record on the Grades/Outcomes panel. This information is used on Transcripts and Certificates.
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0019179 ANCOR Support ANCOR Courses: How to create and utilize the custom question feature "
This article outlines the steps to create Custom Questions, which allow customized questions to be asked of a client during the registration checkout process. These questions appear when the shopping cart is submitted, before payment information is collected. 
Table of Contents
•	Creating a Question Category
•	Creating New Classifications
•	Custom Questions Overview
•	Setting Up Custom Questions
•	Linking Course Sections
•	Removing Course Section Links to Questions 
o	Bulk Method
o	Single Course Section Method
•	InSight Report
Before you can add custom questions, you must setup a Question Categories, if not already present and a Classification. This allows the questions to be visible during the registration checkout process.
Creating a Question Category
1.	View Question Categories from Main Menu > Selects N-Z > Question Category. 
2.	Confirm that a Question Category named WebReg already exists. If not, click the +New Question Category link to add a new Question Category and add WebReg.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click Submit. A green banner prompt will display when complete.
Creating New Classifications
1.	Go to Main Menu > Selects > Classifications.  
2.	Click the +New Classification link in the blue toolbar to start a new record. 
3.	Enter a Classification. 
o	This will be the name displayed in the Client Classification record, so it should have some type of recognition for a user and be related to the question being asked during the check. Duplicate Classification names cannot exist. ?Names such as 'Parent' and 'Parent 1' can both exist. ?However, each will save as separate classifications under the Client Classification section.
o	The first four characters of the Classification should NOT be "Web-". ?This is a reserved classification prefix. 
4.	Classification Category field is optional. ?Entering a value may be helpful for reporting. Add a Classification Category by entering under Selects > Classification Categories. 
5.	Description is an optional field only visible to administrators. 
6.	Set Program Display to No. ?This field is not required or used in this case. 
7.	Set Web Display to Yes. ? ?If set to No, the question will not appear in the WebReg module. 
8.	Set the AutoOption to No. ?This field is not required or used in this case. 
9.	Save the Classification record by clicking +CREATE.
Custom Questions Overview
There are four types of Registration Questions. The difference between these four types lies in where replies are recorded and in the flexibility of the types of questions that can be asked. To specify the question type, the Classification Name entered during question setup must match an option from the reserved word-list provided.
Duplicate Classification names cannot exist.  Names such as Web-Contact and Web-Contact 1 can both exist. Both will save in the exact same location.
1.	Client Classifications Questions: 
o	The replies to these questions are recorded under the Client Profile tab, Classifications heading.
o	The name of the classification is recorded for the Client Classification, and the reply to the question is recorded in the Notes field.
o	These are the standard types of questions; no reserved words required.
2.	Client Info Questions: 
o	The replies for these questions?are recorded?directly into a specific existing field within the Client’s Info section and not in the Client Classification section.
o	The replies are preset to match the selected field.
o	Reserved word-list: 
	Web-Allergy:  This value will record in the Client’s Info > Other panel.  Text reply as entered by the client.
	Web-BirthDate:  This value will record in the Client’s Info > Demographics panel.  Formatted date reply as entered by the client.
	Web-CellPhone:  This value will record in the Client’s Info > Address/Phone panel.  Formatted text reply as entered by the client.
	Web-CreditType:  This value will record in the Client's Assignment the Credit Type the client selected from the available Credit Types select list.  Can enforce credit type restriction based on Course Section Credit Types.
	Web-DominantLanguage:  This value will record in the Client’s Info > Demographics panel.  Select list reply from Languages table.
	Web-Ethnicity:  This value will record in the Client’s Info > Demographics panel.  Select list reply from Ethic table.
	Web-Gender:  This value will record in the Client’s Info > Demographics panel.  Select list reply of M or F.
	Web-GradeCurrent:  This value will record in the Client’s Info > Demographics panel.  Select list reply using list from -1 to 12 where -1 = pre-school, 0 = kindergarten and 1-12 = the year of school.
	Web-Guardian:  This value will record in the Client’s Info > Info panel.  Text reply as entered by the client.
	Web-HomePhone:  This value will record in the Client’s Info > Address/Phone panel.  Formatted text reply as entered by the client.
	Web-LicensePlate:  This value will record in the Client’s Info > Other panel.  Text reply as entered by the client.
	Web-Medical:  This value will record in the Client’s Info »> » Other panel.  Text reply as entered by the client.
	Web-Nationality:  This value will record in the Client’s Info > Demographics panel.  Select list reply from Countries table.
	Web-SocialSecurity:  This value will record in the Client’s Info > Demographics panel.  Text reply as entered by the client.  Follows the format set in the Branch Profile.
	Web-SchoolCurrent:  This value will record in the Client’s Info > Demographics panel.  Text reply as entered by the client or select reply as pre-entered by the user.
	Web-WorkPhone:  This value will record in the Client’s Info > Address/Phone panel.  Formatted text reply as entered by the client.
3.	Emergency Contact Question: 
o	This will allow up to two emergency contact records, with a minimum of one required. If any currently exist, the names will display for the client to review, but the client cannot see details or edit the existing contacts.
o	These questions are recorded in the Client Family section.
o	Reserved Word-list: 
	Web-Contact: This value will record in the Client’s Family tab. 
4.	Marketing Source Question: 
o	This feature will request the client to select a marketing source how they heard about the program and enter a marketing code if they have one. This feature differs from the same question asked in their profile. ?This feature records for all Assignments purchased from the WebReg module.
o	Reserved Word-list: 
	Web-HowHeard:  This value will record in the Client’s Assignment.
Setting Up Custom Questions
1.	Go to Admin/Security > Settings (gear icon) > Custom Questions.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click +NEW Custom Question to add.
3.	Question Settings: 
1.	Question Name: Title only visible to on the admin side.
2.	Question: ?Enter the question exactly as you want the question to display to the client including punctuation. ?Include instructions such as “Enter None if not relevant” for text boxes.
3.	Question Type: (use drop-down to choose type of answer requested) 
1.	Select: The Client will see a select list from the items added in the next field.
2.	Yes/No: The Client will see Yes and No radio buttons as the response to the question.
3.	File Upload: The Client will have a file upload option that records the file in the Client Documents area of the Client’s account record. (recommended to upload a PDF file)
4.	Text: The Client will see a text field to enter the reply. ?No formatting is enforced, so even dates will be entered as text.
5.	Checkbox: The client will see a single checkbox to check if they agree with or approve the question.
6.	Profile: Answers are stored on the Client’s Profile.
4.	Client Location: Only required for Client Info, Emergency Contact & Marketing Questions. 
5.	Select Options: ?Only required if the question type = Select. Type one selection (at a time) and click Tab to add each one.
6.	Question Description: Optional field, only visible to administrator.
7.	Question Required: Toggle Yes or No (client must answer the question if toggled to Yes).
8.	Question Frequency: Select how frequently the question should display.
9.	Question Order: When creating multiple questions, enter a numeric value to specify the order they will appear during the checkout process.
10.	Fee Group: Default = Regular. When used without Linked Sections, all clients of the desired Fee Group will see the question. If used in tandem with Linked Sections, only the Clients in the Fee Group and in the Linked Sections will see the question.
Linking Course Sections
1.	Go to the Course Section to link to the Custom Question. 
2.	To select a section, hover to the left of the Course ID and click the Checkbox. 
3.	Several links will appear above the section list. 
4.	Click the CLIENT QUESTIONS button.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	A workflow will pop up: 
1.	Use the drop-down to select the Custom Question.
2.	Click Next to proceed.
3.	Review the Course Section and selected Question.
4.	Click the Confirm checkbox and click Submit.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	To view a list of Linked Course Sections: 
1.	Go to Admin/Security > Custom Questions.
2.	Hover your cursor to the left of the Custom Question and click the 'paper icon' - Sections.
3.	A list of linked Course Sections will be displayed. You may delete any sections by clicking the 'garbage bin icon' to the left of the Course Section.
Removing Course Section Links to Questions
Bulk Method
1.	Go to Admin/Security > Settings (gear icon) > Custom Questions
2.	Click the pencil icon to edit the custom question.
3.	Set the Delete All Linked Sections field to Yes.
4.	Click Save to update the record.
Single Course Section Method
1.	Click the Sections icon for the desired question record.
2.	From the list of Sections, click the garbage can icon Delete for each Section to remove.
InSight Report
This report can be used to pull a registration roster with replies to Custom Questions.
Quick Path: InSight Menu > Local Reports > Clients > Client Lists > Custom Question Replies by Course Code
" KB0019177 ANCOR Support ANCOR Courses: How to create Canvas courses in ANCOR "
This article outlines the connection between ANCOR & Canvas and how to set up courses in ANCOR to push to Canvas to create the API connection.
Integration
ANCOR Branches must be assigned a Canvas subaccount before linking courses between systems. Contact the ANCOR Helpdesk to make a request. This builds the ANCOR to Canvas API connection.
Course Creation
ANCOR is the system driving the Canvas course shell creation – you must create the ANCOR course/section first and then Send to Canvas to create the Canvas course shell. All content can then be added on the Canvas side, while ANCOR then controls registration. 
1.	Courses are created in ANCOR with the following addition: 
1.	Go to Services > Courses > + NEW COURSE.
2.	In the Vendor field, select Canvas as the vendor. This is REQUIRED 
	NOTE: If you have an existing course in Canvas, see instructions for linking to ANCOR at the end of this guide.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Create course section(s) for each instance to be populated in Canvas as an online course offering.  You must create a new course section in ANCOR to generate a Canvas course shell. (Existing courses that you now want to create Canvas offerings for can be edited by simply updating the vendor to Canvas as well.) 
o	NOTE: If you are working with an existing ANCOR course section that already has registrants, please contact the ANCOR Helpdesk for assistance.
3.	Review to ensure ANCOR courses/sections are complete, with all requisite course information – i.e., section ID, status, start/end dates, instructor, and confirmation templates (see COMMUNICATIONS below).
4.	You are now ready to push the Course Section to Canvas.
5.	Go to Services > Courses > Sections > Section > Section Information > Actions.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	For each Section, you may elect to create an online course in Canvas via one of two methods: 
o	Send Unique Course/Section to Canvas – The ANCOR section will be pushed to Canvas as a separate Canvas course site, with no shared functionality (This should be your selection for INITIAL course creation or if it is a one-time program with no plans for multiple offerings, creating a new Canvas Course & Section each time).
o	Send Section under Course to Canvas – ANCOR sections listed under a single ANCOR course will be created as multi-sections within one (1) Canvas course site (This should be your selection if you offer course sections multiple times and will remain under the same Canvas Course).
The course in Canvas will be unpublished until all content is created in Canvas, and the instructor/Canvas admin elects to publish the course; however, students can still register if the course section is set to Offered in ANCOR.
NOTE: If future updates are made to a course section in ANCOR, admins can use the Update to Canvas option as well; however, only Course DATES will be updated. All other changes must be made manually on the Canvas site, including instructor changes.
Instructor Enrollment
1.	ANCOR admins must assign Staff to the ANCOR section (Staff > + NEW STAFF). Instructors must have a Canvas account and an ANCOR staff account with matching email addresses. 
2.	Once a course section is created and sent to Canvas, the ANCOR Staff will be enrolled in Canvas and receive a standard Canvas course invitation as an instructor only if: 
o	The ANCOR staff has a Canvas account; and,
o	The default email in Canvas matches their ANCOR Staff account email.
NOTE: The Branch Admin will receive an error in ANCOR if the instructor is not enrolled. Please read all pop-up messages carefully.
Student Enrollment
1.	Once a student registers via WebReg, ANCOR will automatically enroll the student in the Canvas course. 
2.	If a user has multiple emails in Canvas in their user profile, this reduces duplicate account creation, since ANCOR searches the Communication API rather than the User profile (which lists only a single default email). 
3.	If an ANCOR email address returns more than one Canvas user ID, ANCOR will associate the enrollment with the lowest Canvas User ID – i.e., the oldest account. 
o	This means that NetID users who are registered for ANCOR will log in with their NetID.
4.	If there is no email match, ANCOR will create a new user account.
5.	Once created, Canvas will send an “account creation” email message with instructions for users to log in, create a password, and/or add any other associated email addresses.
o	If a student adds an email address to their profile during the final steps of Canvas account creation AND that email address already exists in Canvas, then Canvas will automatically merge the accounts.
Communications
Each branch must have a Canvas Confirmation email template before launching registration. This communication is triggered automatically for web registrations and provides students with the necessary information to access their Canvas course(s). You only need to set it up once. Please contact the ANCOR Helpdesk for assistance.
1.	To confirm that the Canvas Confirmation email template exists or to modify it.
2.	Go to Tools (box icon) > Marketing Functions > Create Email Templates.
3.	The Template Name must be Canvas Confirmation to be automatically triggered at registration.
" KB0019178 ANCOR Support ANCOR Courses: How to create courses and sections "
This article outlines the steps to create a new Course and Section in ANCOR. You must create both a Course and Section to enable a WebReg link so clients can register for classes.
Before you create a course and/or section, you must confirm the following: 
•	Buildings, Facilities, Locations, Policies. If you need to add new information to these categories, do so by going to Main Menu > Selects > (Buildings, Facilities, Locations or Policies). Please review each one of these to ensure they are ready before creating a course.
•	Confirm your instructor(s) have a Staff account by going to Main Menu > Staff.
•	Sessions - A Session must be created before creating a new Course or a new Section. Main Menu > Selects N-Z > Sessions.
How to Create a New Course
1.	From the Main Menu, choose Services and click Courses.
2.	Click +New Course.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Enter a Course ID (user-defined – cannot be duplicated) and a Course Title. 
4.	Enter a brief course description for the course in the Description text box (Use the text editor in the top right corner of the text box, as needed).

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	If you are creating a CANVAS course, please also complete these two additional required steps: 
1.	Vendor: Select Canvas if this course will be linked to Canvas. Otherwise, leave it blank.
2.	Alt Course Title: Enter the course title here to display in Canvas. Otherwise, leave it blank.
6.	Click CREATE to save the new course. 
o	TIP: The CREATE button saves the course record and opens the course in view mode to continue editing. The CREATE AND ADD NEW button will save the course record and open a blank +New Course form to create an additional new course.
7.	You can add additional information to the new Course by clicking EDIT on the information panels.
8.	REQUIRED: Click Edit > Requirements and select Yes to Include on Transcript. 
o	(Important note: A Course can have unlimited Sections, but each Section must have a unique Section ID.)

Error! Filename not specified.
How to Create a New Section
1.	Click the Sections tab. 
2.	Click +New Section. 
3.	Enter a unique Section ID (max. 15 characters). 
4.	Select a Session. 
5.	Select a Course Status. (Important note: The Course Status must be set to “Offered” to open registration.)
6.	Enter the Start and End Date. 
7.	Enter the Start and End Time. 
8.	Select Location. 
9.	Select Instructor 1 (required). (A secondary instructor may be added, but it is not required.) 
10.	Select Department. 
11.	Enter Total Scheduled Hours. 
o	TIP: To calculate Total Scheduled Hours, take the total amount of learning time and remove any planned/scheduled breaks. Please calculate the total course hours, not hours for each single class. Example: A class with 10 sessions, at 90 minutes each -> (1.5 hours x 10) = 15 Total Scheduled Hours.
12.	Select Refund Policy. (A Cancellation Policy may also be added, but it is not required.)
13.	Use the +CREATE button to save the Section.

Error! Filename not specified.
14.	You can add additional Section information by clicking EDIT on the information panels.
15.	REQUIRED: Click Edit > Section Information. Enter the information below and click Save. 
o	Minimum Enrollment
o	Maximum Enrollment (registrations exceeding the Maximum will be waitlisted)
16.	REQUIRED: Click Edit > Schedule. Enter the information below and click Save. 
o	Include on Transcript toggle to Yes
o	Maximum Quantity Purchase to 1
17.	REQUIRED: Click Edit > WebReg Settings. Enter the selections below and click Save. 
o	Display Online toggle to Yes
o	Display Cart Button toggle to Yes
o	Display Fees toggle to Yes
o	Display Dates toggle to Yes
o	Important note: Use the WebReg URL to copy the course link for embedding on your course website. 

Error! Filename not specified.
18.	From the horizontal Sections menu, click More > Fees.

Error! Filename not specified.
19.	Click +Add Fee and complete the following required fields: 
o	Revenue Item: Defaults to Tuition. (You can create additional revenue items under Selects.)
o	Fee: Enter course cost. (You can set a $0 fee for a class with no charge.)
o	Minimum Payment: Defaults to $0, meaning the fee must be paid in full at the time of registration. 
o	Fee Groups: You must select Regular.
o	Income Account: Carefully select the revenue account into which the fees will be deposited.
o	Fee Method: Defaults to Required. (Other options available.)
o	Fee Target: Defaults to Standard.
o	Important note: You can create early/late fees using start/end dates, as well as multi-fee and optional fee structures.
20.	Click +Create.
21.	REVIEW SECTION for registration: Under Section Information > Actions, click Check Web Display. This checklist will ensure that your course section is ready to open registration. (Checklist will identify areas with a red "X" that need correction prior to registration being available.)

Error! Filename not specified.


Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0019181 ANCOR Support ANCOR Financial: How to create a Discount "
This article outlines how to create a discount used during the WebReg registration process to reduce course fees. 
1.	From the Main Menu, click Financial and select Discounts.
2.	Click +New.
3.	Select the discount Type from the drop-down: 
o	Promo Code: A single word or group of letters, up to 12 characters - Promo Codes are not case sensitive.
o	Early Registration:  
	Enter a positive number of days prior to the Start Date.
	Entering a value of zero allows a discount to be applied up to the start date.
	Course Section must have a Start Date to trigger the Early Registration discount.
o	Quantity: 
	Enter a positive number; courses required to trigger the discount.
	Include Members checkbox.
	NOTE: If registrations for the client's Members can be used toward qualifying for a Quantity discount, check the box for Include Members. Otherwise, the Members' registrations are ignored.
o	Corporate: 
	Restricted to members of Corporate Client.
	Must be a Member of a Corporate Client; Corp client not eligible.
	Must NOT be the first registrant.
	Client & Corporate Client must have the same Company listed.
4.	Enter a unique Title. 
o	The discount Title will appear on WebReg.
o	Do not include the word 'discount' in the title. "Discount" will be automatically applied at checkout.
5.	Enter either the exact Discount Amount or the Discount Percent to be calculated during checkout.
6.	Description: Optional.
7.	Enter the Promo Code that clients will enter during checkout? (Note: during checkout, clients must click the Recalculate button to apply the discount).
8.	Auto Add Admin: Used only in the admin portal.
9.	One Time Use: Toggle Yes to restrict use to one time.
10.	Enter Start Date for discount to begin (OPTIONAL).
11.	Enter End Date for Discount?(REQUIRED).
12.	Parameters to trigger Discount (TIP: Only set enough parameters that meet your criteria). 
o	Course: If ALL Sections qualify
o	Section: If only ONE section qualifies
o	Category: If ALL Sections of the Courses with this Category qualify
o	Session: If ALL Course Sections in the selected Session qualify
o	Program Group: If ALL Courses or Sections in the Program Group qualify
o	Fee Group: If valid only for the specified Fee Group
13.	Click CREATE to save.
Create a Course Category (Optional)
If utilizing Course Category as a criterion to trigger a discount, follow the steps below. This feature will group a particular set of courses and enable a discount code for course registrations.
1.	From the Main Menu, click Selects, then under Selects A-D,  click Course Categories.
2.	Click New Course Category.
3.	Create Course Category?.
4.	Enter the name for the Course Category?.
5.	Search Type is Course for courses?.
6.	Selections may also be Conferences, Products or Memberships?.
7.	Click OK to save the entry?.
8.	Next, tag courses to the Course Category.
9.	From the Main Menu, click Services > Courses.
10.	Utilize the search box to locate the appropriate course and click Search?.
11.	Locate the course and click the Paper icon to view the details.
12.	Click Edit to expand the Cataloging panel.
13.	Click the drop-down menu for Category and select the appropriate Course Category?.
14.	Click Save to save the entry.
15.	Repeat for all courses/sections you wish to apply the same discount.
" KB0019182 ANCOR Support ANCOR Financial: How to split an invoice "
This article will outline how to generate new invoices from an existing invoice that allow clients to pay in either installments or to split the original invoice by course.
There are two workflow methods to split your Invoice:  
•	Split by Course: This option allows an Admin to move all the line items and payments linked to a specific course assignment from one invoice to a new invoice or another invoice within the same client.  A message is added to the source and target invoice note sections when the split function is used.
•	Split by Invoice: This option allows an Admin to create up to 10 new invoices as an installment payment plan from one course code on an existing invoice.  The original invoice is not modified during this process; you must manually modify it after using this function. Each row entered creates a separate invoice for the same course code.
Invoice Lookup
1.	Begin by searching for the Invoice.
2.	Go to Clients and search for the client.  
3.	Click the kebab menu (three dots) and select Invoices.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	From the Invoices listed, hover your cursor to the left of the Invoice number and use the more actions kebab menu to select either the Split by Courses or Split by Invoice option from the drop-down menu.

Error! Filename not specified.
Split by Courses (Option 1)
This built-in workflow will guide you through the steps to move a registered course from the original invoice to a NEW or existing invoice, leaving all other courses registered on the original invoice.
1.	Select one of the course codes and then, under Select Target Invoice select New Invoice or using the drop-down menu, select another existing Invoice to move the course to.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click SPLIT BY COURSE to complete the process of splitting the invoice.   
3.	A NEW Invoice will be generated, moving all line items, fees, payments, and assignments.
Split by Invoice (Option 2)
This built-in workflow will allow you to create multiple invoices for an installment payment plan. You can create up to 10 new invoices as an installment plan and add a company or funding source for each new Invoice.
1.	Click SPLIT PAYMENTS to split the invoice.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click the INVOICES tab to view the full list of the client’s invoices, including the ones newly created by splitting.
" KB0019775 ANCOR Support ANCOR InSight: Certificate generation "
This custom report allows you to select a Staff record as the certificate signatory and display the selected record's name, title, and digital signature on the certificate. 
Uploading a Staff Digital Signature
It is the sole responsibility of each noncredit unit to ensure that the appropriate signature(s) are on file within the ANCOR system. Please review the steps outlined in the STAFF: Uploading Staff Signatures article to ensure a signature has been uploaded properly. 
Section and Client settings
Prior to running a certificate report, the Section's Course Status should be set to Completed. 
•	The Client's Enrollment Status for the course you are printing the certificate for must be set to Completed prior to running the Certificate report.
•	If these settings are not updated, neither the course or the client will be searchable in the report filters. 
How to find the report
Now that you have the signature files uploaded, navigate to the Certificate Report(s) by selecting InSight from the Main Menu toolbar on the left side of the screen.
Note: If you do not see the menu links, click the three horizontal lines at the top left to expand the global menu. 
Error! Filename not specified. 
Certificates
1.	Scroll down to Local Reports and click Credentialing, next click Certificates.
2.	Click on Certificate with Digital Signature (single) or (dual) to open the report.
Running the Report
How to filter your report 
1.	Click the filter Signature Name – Equals (Selection) - Single Selection.
2.	Click the drop-down arrow to select the appropriate signature from the drop-down (if the name does not appear, check the Staff record for your signatory. Review the steps outlined under Uploading Staff Signature). 
o	For Dual Signature, you must select both a Signature 1 and a Signature 2.
o	Note: Signature 1 will display on the left & Signature 2 will display on the right.
3.	Click the Course Code filter.
4.	Enter the Course ID.
5.	Click the Enrollment Status filter.
6.	Click the drop-down arrow to select the appropriate status (ie. Completed Satisfactory).
7.	Click the Apply Filter button to set values and refresh the report.
Error! Filename not specified. 
Exporting
1.	The results will display below the filter search boxes. Review the information displayed.
2.	Click the Export drop-down menu and select PDF as the format. Other formats will not produce a usable certificate. 

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	ANCOR will download the file. (This request may take a few moments to complete. The file will minimize in the bottom right of your screen). 
4.	Open the downloaded file to view and/or save the file locally. 
Note: The InSight report will not save search results or additional filters. Enter the filter criteria and click Apply Filter when running the report. For frequent/repeat needs, please reach out to the ANCOR Help Desk to discuss options for custom reporting.
" KB0019785 ANCOR Support ANCOR InSight: Transcripts "
This custom report allows the user to select a Transcript with either all client assignments as a Record of Registration or an Official Transcript displaying only completed coursework.
Uploading a Staff Digital Signature
It is the sole responsibility of each noncredit unit to ensure that the appropriate signature(s) are on file within the ANCOR system. Please review the steps outlined in the ANCOR STAFF: Uploading Digital Signatures to Staff Profiles article to ensure a signature has been uploaded properly prior to running a Transcript report.
Report Location
To find the reports, select InSight from the main menu toolbar on the left side of the screen. 
Note: If you do not see the menu links, click the three horizontal lines at the top left to expand the global menu. 
Error! Filename not specified. 
Error! Filename not specified.
Transcripts
1.	Scroll down to Local Reports and click the Credentialing dropdown.
2.	Then click Transcripts.
3.	Next, click to select either Record of Registration (unofficial) or Transcript (official) to open the report.
NOTE: There are TWO types of Transcript reports: 
•	Record of Registration (unofficial): (no seal, no signature) 
o	A Record of Registration is an unofficial comprehensive record of noncredit course activity, including all registrations and cancellations. It does not contain a signature nor does it constitute successful completion of all noncredit coursework. 
•	Noncredit Transcript (official): (digital signature required) 
o	All course offerings must be closed upon completion; and,
o	This report will ONLY display courses that have an enrollment status of Completed/Satisfactory.
o	Only students with accurate, updated status will appear on Noncredit Transcripts. 
Course, Section, and Assignment settings
Prior to running a Transcript report, the Course and Section's Include on Transcript field should be toggled to Yes. 
•	Course settings 
o	On the Requirements panel, toggle Include on Transcript to Yes
•	Section settings 
o	On the Schedule panel, toggle Include on Transcript to Yes
The client's Assignment Status for the courses listed on the transcript must be set to Completed prior to running the transcript report. 
Note: If these settings are not updated, the courses will not appear on the transcript. 
Running the Report
How to filter your report 
Record of Registration (unofficial)
1.	Click Client Last Name (s--) filter - Type the Client’s Last Name.
2.	Click Client First Name (s--) filter- Type the Client’s First Name.
3.	OPTIONAL: Click Client ID and enter the ID number for the specific client. (ie. RU363950000) This additional filter is useful for clients with common names.
4.	Click the blue Apply Filter button to the right of the Filter toolbar to refresh your results.
Noncredit Transcript (official)
1.	Click Signature Name (*required) filter to select a Staff signature.
2.	Click Client Last Name (s--) filter - Type the Client’s Last Name.
3.	Click Client First Name (s--) filter- Type the Client’s First Name.
4.	OPTIONAL: Click Client ID and enter the ID number for the specific client. (ie. RU363950000) This additional filter is useful for clients with common names.
5.	Click the blue Apply Filter button to the right of the Filter toolbar to refresh your results. 
Exporting
1.	The results will display below the filter search boxes. Review the information displayed.
2.	Click the Export drop-down menu and select the desired export format (i.e., Excel, PDF ,etc.). 

Error! Filename not specified. 
3.	InSight will download the selected file. (This request may take a few moments to complete. The file will minimize in the bottom right of your screen). 
4.	Open the downloaded file to view and/or save the file locally. 
Note: The InSight report will not save search results or additional filters. Enter the filter criteria and click Apply Filter when running the report. For frequent/repeat needs, please contact the ANCOR Help Desk to discuss options for custom reporting.
" KB0019185 ANCOR Support ANCOR Quicktools: Creating staff/instructor account "
This article will outline how to create Staff/Instructor accounts that can be accessed through the QuickTools module. The QuickTools Module is an additional portal that provides instructors with access to basic course data. Access to QuickTools is based on Staff records, not Admin User records. The instructor will be able to view enrollment, enter grades, share documents, etc., for each course section for which they are listed as an instructor based on the permissions set on their account.
In ANCOR, create a Staff account for the course instructor by clicking the Staff link from the Main Menu. (Note: Staff records are shared across all branches. Use the Search function to ensure a Staff account does not already exist. Search by last name, first name).
1.	Create a new Staff record by clicking the Staff,  + NEW STAFF link.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	A pop up window will appear to enter the instructor's initial information: 
1.	Enter a unique Staff Code (i.e., NetID or other unique identifier)
2.	Enter First Name and Last Name.
3.	Click + CREATE to save the new staff record. 

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Once the new Staff record is created, the full Staff profile will appear for additional information to be added.
4.	Click EDIT on the Contact panel to update. 
1.	Enter the instructor’s Email Address. 
	Note: Rutgers-issued email is strongly preferred. If the Instructor is using Canvas for courses, the Email Address entered here MUST match their Canvas account’s primary email address.)
2.	Click Save.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Click EDIT on the Web Access panel to set up the instructors' access to QuickTools
6.	Enter a User Name (i.e., NetID or other) 
1.	Under QuickTools Permissions – select ALL (unless you want to limit access)
2.	Under QuickTools Reports – select ALL (unless you want to limit access)
3.	Click Save

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	IMPORTANT: QuickTools Reports setting rules: 
o	If Report selections are set within the Course Section, those settings take priority.
o	If not set at the Course Section level, report selections set at the Staff level take priority.
o	If no report selections (left blank) are set at the Course Section or Staff level, the staff member can run ALL QuickTools reports.
o	Notify your instructor that a QuickTools account has been created and provide them with their Username.
o	QuickTools URL
" KB0019191 ANCOR Support ANCOR Refunds: How to Process a refund in NelNet & ANCOR "
This article will outline all the steps required to properly and fully refund a client. In this multi-step process, you must first process the refund back to the client's original payment method in NelNet, then log in to ANCOR to record the refund. Please review the steps outlined below. Both steps must be completed to ensure the refund is properly processed.
STEP 1: Refund process in NelNet
Payments made by eCheck cannot be refunded through NelNet. A manual check request must be done. (see Addendum at the end of this article on how to process a Manual Check request) 
Refunds can only be processed within 180 days of the original transaction date. Any transaction older than 180 days cannot be processed through NelNet and must be issued through a manual check request. 
1.	Log in to NelNet using your individual credentials.
2.	Click the green QuikPay tile.
3.	Click Find Transaction from the side menu.
4.	Enter search criteria to locate the transaction and click Search. 
o	Confirmation number found on client receipt or in ANCOR.
o	Dollar amount of the transaction.
o	Date of transaction.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	For Transactions prior to 2/1/2023, you must EXPAND the Additional Criteria section at the bottom of the Find Transaction page and check the box for "Rutgers Commerce Manager Card Processor-TSYS."

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Click on the corresponding Confirmation # to review the details of a transaction.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Click Refund at the bottom of the page to begin processing a refund.
8.	Review transaction information, enter the refund amount at the bottom of the page, then click Continue. 
o	If processing a partial refund, enter the amount to refund.
9.	Click Refund to process. 
o	Note: partial refunds will allow additional refund(s) up to the balance amount in the future.
o	Transactions with multiple GL or project accounts cannot be refunded through NelNet and must be issued manually, typically as a paper check.
Refund Confirmation
•	A refund will have a CR (credit) next to the transaction amount on the transactions list.

Error! Filename not specified. 
•	A refund will appear as a ‘negative’ amount on the Payment Report to reflect the credit revenue.
•	Remember that refunds processed in the payment gateway do not automatically record in ANCOR. This is a manual process that must be completed for record-keeping purposes.
STEP 2: Recording the refund in ANCOR
NelNet QuikPay refunds do not automatically record in ANCOR; therefore, this is a manual process done in conjunction with the NelNet refund process. 
1.	Click Clients and use the keyword search box to locate the client account.
2.	Click Payments and locate the transaction (Confirm course code, Client Invoice#, Amount paid).
3.	Click the kebab menu (3 dots) next to the confirmed transaction.
4.	Click Add Refund from the drop-down menu.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	In the pop-up, enter the Return Amount and select Refund from the drop-down menu.
6.	Make the selections below:

Error! Filename not specified.
1.	Change Enrollment Status – change to reflect current enrollment status (Did not Complete -Dropped or Did Not Complete - Refunded).
2.	Adjust Invoice – Yes.
3.	Revenue Item – Select the Revenue Item being refunded.
4.	Insert Case Note (Optional) – Toggle to Yes to add a case note to the account for the refund transaction info.
5.	Pay Type (Refunds) – select original payment method.
6.	OnAccount/Refund Reason (Optional) – Select the reason for refund or OnAccount transaction (Refund Reason can be added to ANCOR under Selects N-Z).
7.	Enter Transaction Note – (Optional) enter description of refund.
7.	Click Next.
8.	Confirm the refund information, then click Submit to record the refund. 
o	Note: Payment information from NelNet-QuikPay is stored on the client payment record under the Details panel. The Tracking Number in ANCOR Payment Details = NelNet Confirmation Number. 
9.	Record the NelNet Refund Confirmation Number in ANCOR for tracking purposes.
10.	Locate the Refund line under Invoices > Payments and open it in Edit mode.
11.	Expand the Details section and add the transaction details from the NelNet/QuikPay to record the missing information. 
Click Edit to enter information: 
1.	Confirm Payment Type (ie. VISA, Cash, Check).
2.	Confirm the Revenue Item.
3.	Enter the Last 4 of the credit card number (from NelNet Quikpay).
4.	Add the Credit Card Transaction > Tracking Number – this is the CONFIRMATION# in NelNet QuikPay. 
For ALL eCheck payments, refunds must be made via a manual check process.
For any paper checks received, refunds must be made via that same method.  See Manual Check Requests for more information on this process. 
ADDENDUM: Processing a Manual Check request
Processing a refund for ALL NelNet echecks, transactions processed over 180 days, or transactions originally paid by a physical check - must be done via a manual check request.
Please follow the steps outlined in the Creating a Check Request job aid. The original document is found on the University Procurement Services website, along with additional information on how to process a refund via the Create a Check Request process.
" KB0019189 ANCOR Support ANCOR Refunds: How to refund OnAccount given "
This article outlines the steps to create OnAccount refunds that credit a client's account and can be used toward the purchase of future training. The OnAccount credit can be also be accessed by the client through the WebReg portal at the time of registration.
See the section at the end of the article on how to expire OnAccount Given credits.
1.	Locate the client’s Account by clicking on Clients on the Main Menu, then searching by the client's Lastname, Firstname, or Client ID#.
2.	Click the kebab button (three dots), then select Payments.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Use the kebab menu next to the transaction to be refunded and select Add Refund.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	A pop-up workflow to Issue OnAccount/Refund will display.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Enter the Return Amount (the amount defaults to the original payment amount). 
o	Use the dropdown to select OnAccount.
6.	Change Enrollment Status: Use the dropdown to select the appropriate status.
7.	Adjust Invoice Balance: Refund will be applied to the balance due.
8.	Revenue Item: Defaults to revenue item on original transaction.
9.	Insert Case Note: Toggle to Yes.
10.	Pay Type (refunded): Defaults to original payment method.
11.	OnAccount/Refund Reason: Drop-down options can be created under Selects N-Z.
12.	Transaction Note: Optional text field for notes.
The clients’ invoice and confirmation receipt will reflect the changes made to the original payment and will display the OnAccount Given. The confirmation receipt can be emailed to the client through ANCOR.
NOTE: Remember that refunds recorded in ANCOR are for record-keeping purposes only. You must still process the actual refund for the client through the payment gateway, NelNet, which will return the funds to the original method of payment.
How to Expire an OnAccount Given 
1.	Locate the client’s Account by clicking on Clients on the Main Menu, then searching by clients' Lastname, Firstname or Client ID#. 
2.	Next, click on Payments to review the OnAccount Given 
3.	Edit the OnAccount Given payment line item and set it to $0.   
4.	Add a Memo to that line item: "OnAccount Given of $XXX has expired; amount adjusted to$0."
5.	Add a Case Note.  Type = Financial, tagged the course code): "OnAccount Given of $XXX has expired; amount adjusted to $0."
6.	Review the Invoice. The OnAccount Given should now be $0. 
" KB0019195 ANCOR Support ANCOR Registration: How to transfer client registration to another course "
This article will outline how to transfer a registration/payment between course sections within a single client record. Before beginning, note the Start Date and End Date of the target course (the one the client’s registration is being moved into).
Transfer Registration - same client, different course
There are two methods for transferring a client registration to another course:
•	Method A will preserve the full historical information for the course section the client was first assigned to before transferring them to the new assignment.
•	Method B will change the Course Section but will not retain the historical information of the original registration. 
The first six steps are the same for both processes.  
1.	Go to Clients from the Main Menu
2.	Enter the name to search for the client (last name, first name).
3.	Click the View Details (document icon) to view the Client profile.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click on the Assignments tab to locate the course section.
5.	Click View Details (document icon) next to the assignment that will be transferred.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Click Edit within the Assignment Information panel.
Method A: New Assignment
1.	Click the drop-down menu for Enrollment Status.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Select  Did Not Complete – Transferred. 
3.	Modify the End Date and other fields as needed, and then click Save.   
4.	Next, go to the Payments tab for the client and click +ADD PAYMENT to apply a credit for the original payment.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	The Invoice Number and Client Assignment should match the old assignment marked as Did Not Complete - Transferred. 
6.	Enter the credit amount and select On Account Given for the Payment Type.
7.	Click +CREATE/CONTINUE.
8.	Navigate back to the Client's Assignments.

Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Click +ADD ASSIGNMENTS to add the new Assignment (the course section the client is transferring into). 
10.	A workflow will pop up. The four steps in this workflow will guide you through the steps to add an Assignment for the new Course Section.
11.	Once the new Assignment is added, an Invoice will also be created for the Client.
12.	Next, click on the PAYMENTS tab and click +ADD PAYMENT to add a new payment to this assignment. 
13.	Complete the required fields, selecting the new Invoice Number and new Assignment.
14.	Next, select On Account Used for the Payment Type.
15.	Click +CREATE/CONTINUE to save changes.
Method B: Modifying Existing Assignment 
Historical data is not retained
1.	Use the drop-down menu for Course Section and select the new Course Section.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Manually enter the Start Date and End Date for the new section. THIS STEP IS MANDATORY – DO NOT SKIP  (have this info on hand before you begin the process). 
o	NOTE: When changing the existing Course Code, the Assignment Start and End dates do not automatically update to the new course section Start and End Dates. They must be modified manually.
3.	Click Save.
4.	Navigate to the Invoices tab.
5.	Locate the Invoice and click the kebab to select Line Items.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Confirm that payment/line items are correct, and adjust them if necessary.
7.	Once the payment/line items are accurate, the process is complete. 
" KB0019220 ANCOR Support ANCOR Registration: Manual Canvas registration instructions "
This article outlines how to manually register a client in ANCOR and push the registration to Canvas.
1.	Log in to ANCOR.
2.	Click Services > Sections and locate the Course Section to enroll the client.
3.	Next, click the Enrollment tab.
4.	Click +ADD ASSIGNMENT to add a new assignment for the client.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	If there is a fee for the course, you may direct the client to make payment through their account on the Catalog Checkout page. Once logged in, the client must navigate to MyAccount > View/Pay Invoices.
6.	Clients who pay online will receive an email receipt automatically within 3 to 5 minutes. 
7.	To manually push the client to the Canvas course after payment confirmation, go to Client > Assignments.     
8.	Click the paper icon to view the new course assignment.
9.	Click SEND TO CANVAS to push the client to the Canvas course.

Error! Filename not specified.
10.	Clients will automatically receive a custom CANVAS CONFIRMATION email within 3 to 5 minutes after they are pushed to Canvas. 
o	This is a specific template that must be created, titled Canvas Confirmation. This template is triggered when the API connection between ANCOR and Canvas automatically registers the client in the Canvas course. The confirmation template includes instructions for logging in to Canvas. If you do not see a Canvas Confirmation template under your Email Templates in Tools, please contact the ANCOR helpdesk to create one.
11.	Clients will also receive an email from Instructure (i.e., Canvas) that directs them to complete their registration by setting a password if they are new to Canvas. The client will click the link they receive to set up their account password. Once they have done so, they will automatically be in the Canvas course. 
o	
	Alternatively, the client may log in directly to the Canvas portal and click the Email Login link. 
	Using the email listed on their ANCOR profile, click Request Password to create a new password and enter the Canvas course site.

Error! Filename not specified.
	If the client is an existing Canvas User AND already has a NetID, they will not receive an email from Canvas to complete their account setup. The client would go to the Canvas portal, select the NetID Login option, and enter their NetID and Password to access the Canvas course. (NOTE: the client's email in ANCOR must match their email address in their NetID Canvas account). 

Error! Filename not specified.
12.	Once the client has successfully logged in, they can access the courses they are enrolled in by navigating to the Courses tab on the left menu.

Error! Filename not specified.
NOTE: For existing Canvas users, their ANCOR email address must match their Canvas default email address so they can be automatically registered in Canvas during registration/payment processing. If Canvas does not find a matching email address, Canvas will create a new account for the client, which will later have to be merged.
" KB0019199 ANCOR Support ANCOR Sections: How to clone a course section "
This article outlines the steps to create a new Course Section using the Clone feature. Cloning allows an admin to create a duplicate copy of one or more Course Sections. The Clone button is only visible when in list mode under Course Sections and at least one Section is checked.
1.	To clone one or more sections, go to the sections list from the Main Menu > Services > Sections.
2.	You may use the filters to limit the display list to those sections you want to clone.
3.	Click the checkbox next to each Course Section to be cloned. You can click the checkbox at the top of the list to select all the filtered Course Sections. However, it is recommended to keep the clone size to a reasonable number of Sections that can be handled at once.
4.	Click the Clone Sections link above the results List.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	A three-step workflow pop-up will display with the selected sections to clone. 
o	NOTE: selections made on this panel will apply to all cloned sections listed. 
1.	Select a New Course Status.
2.	Select a New Session.
3.	Select other options as desired for each Course Section: 
	Include Materials = Yes (this will include Equipment and Textbooks in the clone process).
	Include Section Program Groups = Yes (this will link the cloned Course Section to the same Program Groups as the source course section).
	Include Auto Create Calendar = Yes (this will automatically create the course section calendar).

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Click Next to continue or Cancel to stop and close.
7.	On the New Sections panel, enter a new Section ID for each Course Section. 
o	Review all parameters copied from the original Course Section and update as necessary
o	Review Dates, Location, Instructor, Start Date/Time & End Date/Time.
o	Ensure Materials, Notes, Questions, Program Group, and Calendar selections are correct.

Error! Filename not specified.
8.	Click Next to continue or Cancel to stop and close.
9.	Review your submission.
10.	Check the Confirm checkbox, then click Submit to save, or click Cancel to stop and close.
11.	IMPORTANT: Review and edit any newly cloned Course Sections with all applicable new, updated, and/or additional information, as necessary. This includes (but is not limited to): 
o	Alt Section Code - This must be deleted and the section saved to avoid a connection to a previous Canvas course site.
o	Fees - Be sure to update the Fee Amount, start/end dates (if applicable), and confirm that the correct Revenue Account is selected.
o	Enrollment Values - Edit the minimum and maximum enrollment capacities, as applicable.
o	WebReg Settings - Review Display Online, Display Cart, Expire Online, PO acceptance, and other text fields to confirm all values remain accurate for the newly cloned section.
" KB0019200 ANCOR Support ANCOR Staff: Uploading digital signatures to Staff profiles "
This article outlines how to upload a digital signature file for use on certificates and transcripts in ANCOR.
Uploading a Staff Signature
Before you can add an authorized digital signature to certificates or transcripts, you must upload the requisite staff signature(s) for your branch.
The ideal image size for certificate signatures should be 300 to 400 pixels wide and 70 to 100 pixels high. It is optimal to maintain a 4w:1h ratio to ensure consistent resizing when displayed in a report. The image should also be optimized for web resolution, ranging from 72 dpi to 96 dpi, so it displays correctly.
1.	Click Staff from the Main Menu to locate the staff member to add a signature.
2.	Click the EDIT button on the Background/Skills Panel.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Scroll down to Digital Signature and click CHOOSE A FILE to upload your signature image.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Once you have uploaded the file, click SAVE at the top of the Background / Skills panel to save your changes.
5.	Next, add a Job Title. It will appear under the signatory's name on the certificate.      
1.	Click Edit to expand the Employee Information panel.
2.	Use the drop-down menu to select a Job Title.          
	If an appropriate job title is not available, you may go to Main Menu > Selects > Selects E-M > Job Titles to add a new title.
6.	You will need to add a log entry to activate the signature file that has been added. This must be done to ensure the signature appears as an option in your certificate or transcript report. 
1.	Click on the MORE tab at the top of the staff record.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Select Notes/Log.

 Error! Filename not specified.
1.	Click + ADD NOTE.
2.	In the Type field, select Signature from the drop-down.
3.	In the Case Notes field, type in the word Signature.
4.	Click + CREATE to save the note.
" KB0019175 ANCOR Support ANCOR: How to create course bundles "
BUNDLES in ANCOR, allow you to group courses/products for purchase in various ways. If you have any questions or require assistance setting up a Bundle, please do not hesitate to contact the ANCOR Help Desk by emailing ancorhelp@rutgers.edu 
There are four different types of Bundles that can be created: 
•	Corequisite and Subrequisite Bundles: These are groups of courses that require clients to register for additional courses based on the courses already in their cart. 
•	Cross Selling Bundles: Cross Selling Bundles are groups of courses that suggest other courses on the course display page the client is viewing.
•	Products Link Bundles: Product Link Bundles are groups of products that are suggested for purchase based on the course display page the client is viewing, and allow the client to add the products to the cart at the same time as the course section.
•	Pricing Bundles: A set of courses that can be registered for simultaneously. Bundled pricing also allows each course to be priced differently from the individual courses. 
Create a Bundle
1.	Navigate and click on Services from the Main Menu. 
2.	Click Bundles from the drop-down.
3.	Click New Bundle.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Enter bundle information: 
o	Select Type: 
	Corequisite: Requires registration of all the courses in the bundle if any one of the courses in the bundle is added to the cart.
	Subrequisite: Requires registration of all the "Required" courses in the bundle if any one of the "Primary" courses in the bundle is added to the cart.
	Cross Selling: A list of suggested course titles appears at the bottom of the course details page when a client is viewing a course section.
	Product Links: A list of suggested product titles displays after the course section fees at the bottom of the course display page when a client is viewing the details of a course section.
	Pricing Bundles: An optional separate menu displays the Pricing Bundles list on the WebReg module. A client can select the course sections from the available list when viewing the bundle details. If one or more course sections are unavailable for registration, the bundle will display but cannot be purchased.
o	Title: Unique name for the bundle
o	Modules: WebReg (This field will always be set to WebReg. No action needed)
o	Start/End Date (Optional): These dates are optional and should be used only when creating a bundle with a specific active date range. Leave these dates blank if the bundle is always active.
o	Description: (Optional): Not visible to the client
o	Fee Group: (Only for Pricing Bundle) Default = Regular
Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Click Create to Save.
Editing/Customizing Bundle
1.	Click Edit in the Courses panel. 
2.	Click Add Course. (This will automatically link all active sections under the course in WebReg)
3.	Select Courses to be added to the bundle. 
4.	Click Add to Save.

Error! Filename not specified.
For Cross-Selling Bundles
Always/Other: Set the value of this field to Always if the suggestion should always display, regardless of the registration status of the course. Set the value of this field to Other if the suggestion should display only when the registration status of the course is not Registration Available. 
For Pricing Bundles
•	Select a Revenue Item and enter a Fee for each Course added to the Pricing Bundle. (This will be the price for the course when purchased in the bundle.)
•	Note: Additional discounts or promo codes are not applicable to Pricing Bundles.
In WebReg, you can now view the bundle link at the bottom of each bundled course section listing (the link will be below the Add to Cart button).
" KB0019183 ANCOR Support NelNet: How to generate a transaction report "
This article outlines how to run a payment report in NelNet, listing transactions based on filter criteria you define.
System tip: DO NOT use the browser Back button – this will log you out of NelNet.
Important note regarding the additional step to locate transactions prior to 2/1/2023: For Transactions prior to 2/1/2023, you must EXPAND the Additional Criteria section at the bottom of the Find Transaction page and check the box for the Inactive Processor - Rutgers Commerce Manager Card Processor. 
1.	Log in to NelNet using your individual credentials. You will be logged into the Dashboard
2.	Click the green Quikpay tile to continue.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click Report Summary from the side menu. 
o	A Payment Reports dashboard will display.
4.	Click Select Criteria.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Enter the Payment Report Criteria to filter your report. 
o	Filter by Day, Month, or Time Period.
o	TIP: only enter one criterion.
6.	Select Credit Card Options and/or Select eCheck Options. 
o	Enter Additional Criteria. (optional)
7.	Click the Run Report button at the bottom to run the report.

Error! Filename not specified.
o	Note: To run your report for months prior to 2/1/2023, EXPAND the Additional Criteria section and select the Inactive Processors subsection - "Rutgers Commerce Manager Card Processor."
o	The Payment Report Summary will display.
8.	Click the View All Processor Details link to display transactions for the selected criteria.

Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Open the report to view.
10.	Save the file as an Excel document for local storage.
Note: Transaction daily cut-off is 1:45 pm (EST). All transactions after that time will be posted on the next business day. 
Payment Report Details
Displays on-screen transaction information within the defined criteria.  
1.	To download the report, click the Excel Detail link.
2.	To configure the on-screen display, click the Configure Table Options link. You may change the data displayed in this table by selecting different column values, using the drop-down menus provided.

Error! Filename not specified.

Note: In the downloadable Excel report, a Transaction Amount displayed in red denotes a Refund as a negative number; the Order Amount for the transaction will not display as negative. Be careful to use the correct column when reconciling daily/monthly transactions. 
Custom Fields Names on Detail Report
There are many fields mapped for our NelNet integration.
Below are custom fields for ANCOR. These field names appear both on screen and in the downloadable Excel report. 
Custom Field Names
Field Name	Value	Description
Transaction ID	NelNet confirm#	See details below on where this Transaction ID is recorded in ANCOR
User Choice 1	ANCOR Cart#	Shopping Cart identifier in ANCOR
User Choice 20	GL Account	General Ledger revenue account 
User Choice 21	Project Account	Project String revenue account 
User Choice 25	Client/Course	Client ID# and Course code(s)
NelNet Transaction Details
1.	Click Confirmation Number to view transaction details or to process a Refund.  
o	A message will appear above the details if the payment has been declined, returned, or refunded.
o	The transaction Confirmation Number is recorded as the Transaction Number under the client's Payment records in ANCOR.
2.	In ANCOR, the Transaction Number is recorded under the client's Payment records. See below on how to view this information to locate a transaction in NelNet. 
o	Tracking Number in ANCOR matches the Confirmation Number in NelNet.
Error! Filename not specified.
ANCOR Transaction Details
1.	To locate the NelNet confirmation number in ANCOR, go to Clients and search for the client.
2.	Next, click the Payments tab.
3.	Expand the Details panel to view the transaction details.
4.	Click Confirmation Number to view transaction details or to process a Refund.  
o	A message will appear above the details if the payment has been declined, returned, or refunded.
o	The transaction Confirmation Number is recorded under the client's Payment records in ANCOR.
5.	In ANCOR, under Payments, click to expand the Details panel. 
o	Tracking Number in ANCOR matches the Confirmation Number in NelNet.

Error! Filename not specified.
Important notes:
•	A declined credit card transaction will be marked immediately upon submittal and rejection. This information is not passed to ANCOR, and the registration will not be posted in ANCOR.
•	eCheck transactions are considered successful immediately if a valid routing number is used; however, they can be returned via the NACHA network as invalid within seven business days for other reasons. ANCOR will post the payment and registration at the time of payment; however, if the check is returned, ANCOR will NOT be updated.
" KB0013179 Antivirus Software Cisco Secure Endpoint (formerly AMP) training video "
This training video for Cisco Secure Endpoint (formerly AMP) is intended for IT staff.
 
" KB0015568 Apps FAQ for Rutgers Connect "A Power Automate flow stopped working, what do we do? " "
If you are unable to find or edit the flow, there are several reasons this could be occurring, such as an existing owner leaving or transferring departments. You should start by contacting your local IT support with as much information as you can provide (for example, if it's attached to a Team, provide the name or address). If you are unsure of who your local IT support is, you can find their contact email address by going to the IT help page.
" KB0015571 Apps FAQ for Rutgers Connect "A user is asking for help with their PowerAutomate flows, what should I do?" "
Troubleshooting and Transferring Power Automate Flows
Since flows are tied to specific environments within the Power Platform, delegated admins cannot easily search for or manage flows created by other users. If a delegated admin receives a request involving an existing flow such as troubleshooting or transferring ownership they should first gather as much detail as possible from the requester. Useful information includes:
•	The user or group that currently owns the flow
•	The user or group that should receive ownership (if applicable)
•	The name or purpose of the flow
•	The environment where the flow may have been created (if known)
Not all users may know which environment the flow is in, so this detail is helpful but not always available.
Once this information is collected, email connect_support@oit.rutgers.edu for further assistance.
" KB0012975 Apps FAQ for Rutgers Connect Are OneDrive files subject to the same Rutgers e-discovery policy as is email? "
Yes. Rutgers Connect/Office 365 usage also is covered by the University’s Acceptable Use Policy for Computing and Information Technology Resources.
" KB0012973 Apps FAQ for Rutgers Connect Can files be shared across groups within Rutgers Connect? "
Yes. All Office 365 services have a file sharing mechanism, including separate permission levels for individual folders and files. 
" KB0012974 Apps FAQ for Rutgers Connect Can I use OneDrive as a backup server for my files? "
All data on Rutgers Connect itself (email, calendars, OneDrive) is automatically backed up by Microsoft, but you should not use OneDrive as your primary backup storage for your desktop files, for a number of reasons.
There is a transfer limit for downloading files, of any type, from OneDrive. You may not be able to retrieve files as rapidly as you were able to upload them to OneDrive. Avoid storing very large files on OneDrive until you are more familiar with how rapidly you can retrieve files.
All data stored on Rutgers Connect (including email and other files, whether business-related or personal) is subject to eDiscovery or Open Public Records Act (OPRA) requests, as are files and other data stored on work equipment (such as a Rutgers-provided laptop/desktop/mobile device). You should keep personal email and files off of all Rutgers equipment and services if you don’t want the personal files to be included in such requests.
" KB0012968 Apps FAQ for Rutgers Connect How many copies of Office 365 can I install with my Rutgers Connect account? "
Each Rutgers Connect license allows a user to install:
•	5 copies of Office 365 on your desktop (PC or Macs)
•	5 copies of Office 365 for your tablets (Windows, iPad, Android)
•	5 copies of Office 365 for your phones
After a platform's registration limit is reached, new registrations will automatically deactivate the oldest registration on the platform.
" KB0012969 Apps FAQ for Rutgers Connect What are the Security Features of Advanced Threat Protection (ATP)? "
Office 365 Advanced Threat Protection (ATP) acts as a second layer of protection for attachments and links included in email messages for Rutgers Connect. ATP is composed of two components:
Attachment Scanning
All attachments that have never been seen by Rutgers Connect, including those attached to external and internal messages, will be thoroughly checked for possible malware by ATP. If ATP detects a malicious attachment, it will remove the attachment and deliver the email with a note regarding the removed attachment.
This scanning may delay the delivery of a message by a few seconds or minutes.
URL Scanning and Wrapping
ATP will scan and block all web addresses (URLs) arriving from outside Rutgers Connect that are known to contain malicious content, including malware and phishing sites. Links viewed in plain-text mail will be rewritten to link first to a safelinks.protection.outlook.com address and will likely be longer than the original URL. Non-harmful links will function normally when clicked, while links identified as harmful will redirect the user to a warning page.
The protections afforded by ATP also extend to Office 2016 ProPlus desktop applications. Harmful links found in Office documents will be protected by the same webpage-scanning and link-blocking technologies described above, adding a layer of protection to the desktop environment.
Additional information regarding Advanced Threat Protection for Rutgers Connect can be found on the Rutgers ATP news article.
" KB0012971 Apps FAQ for Rutgers Connect What is the difference between a Group and a Contact Group in Connect? "
A Group is a comprehensive way for multiple people to collaborate and organize their activities. Groups can be used to send email to every member of the group, but this is not the full extent of their functionality: they can have shared files through OneDrive, a list of tasks through Planner, a site, and much more. Additionally, Groups can be viewed and joined (if not private), and members can leave.
A Contact Group, however, is only visible to its creator and cannot be joined or left. It is simply a list of contacts in the creator’s address book. It is also known as a distribution list and is used only to send an email to every member.
For more on Groups, see Microsoft’s article on Groups. For more on Contact Groups, see Microsoft’s article on Contact Groups.
" KB0012976 Apps FAQ for Rutgers Connect What type of virus protection is available for Rutgers Connect? "
Microsoft provides its own virus protection service which covers all data (email, files) stored on Rutgers Connect.
" KB0012977 Apps FAQ for Rutgers Connect Why am I unable to save an email directly to OneNote by emailing me@onenote.com? "
OneNote lets you save emails simply by emailing me@onenote.com (more information is available in Microsoft's "Email to OneNote" guide).
In order to use this feature, your primary email address in Connect (the address that appears when your name is searched in Connect and serves as your default “From” address) must exactly match your UPN (short for “User Principal Name” – the address that you use to log into Connect). If these addresses do not match, you will need to save the emails manually when you wish to add them to OneNote.
" KB0012972 Apps FAQ for Rutgers Connect Why do some of my groups not appear in OneDrive OWA? "
Groups do not appear in the list on the left-hand side of OneDrive OWA by default. To make a group appear:
1.	Go to the OneDrive web app and choose the group from the list of folders on the left-hand side.
2.	Select Go to site in the top right corner of the menu.
3.	On the site, you will see a star labeled Not following to the top-right; select it so that it changes to Following.
Afterward, the group will now appear in OneDrive OWA.
" KB0011055 Archive Cisco Identity Services Engine (ISE) "
[Archived until June 1st, 2028] 
Table of Contents
•	Background
•	Bypassing Endpoints
•	Viewing Endpoint Authentications
•	Viewing Endpoint Sessions
Background
Cisco Identity Services Engine (ISE) is a tool for network administration that enables the creation and enforcement of security policies. This allows for simplified management, and more dynamic allocation of access. Cisco ISE replaces the back-end RADIUS servers which previously supported RUWireless and ResNet. It also replaces the front-end Network Authentication Portal (NAP) used by OIT staff to view authentications, sessions, and manage bypassed endpoints. Cisco ISE uses your NetID and password to login, and will prompt your mobile device with a DUO push (you need to have a mobile device enabled with DUO to access ISE).
There is a 1:1 replacement of most parts of NAP within ISE and some new terminology used within ISE which will be referenced herein.
•	RADIUS Authentications displays authentication data, which was previously contained in the top of NAP (RUWireless_Secure Auth Data)
•	RADIUS Accounting displays session data, replacing the bottom table (RUWireless Login Data) in NAP.
•	Endpoints replaces bypassing devices (the MAB tool) and the bypass list.
Additionally, Cisco ISE replaces the preset expiration dates on bypassed endpoints and instead ages them out after 6 months of inactivity. Therefore, users who had devices in the spring and return in the fall will no longer need to contact the Help Desk.
Bypassing Endpoints
Bypassing a device in Cisco ISE is similar to in our previous tools with some additional steps due to the complexity of ISE.
1.	Login to ISE
2.	Select Context Visibility > Endpoints
o	This shows a list of endpoints in the system, with the option to add new ones, this can be filtered by MAC address or other fields and shows its connection status.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	To add a new endpoint bypass, search for the MAC address, if its already attempted to connect it should display in the filtered results.
o	You may then click on the MAC link then the edit icon; or you may click the checkbox, then the edit icon above the list:

Error! Filename not specified.Error! Filename not specified.
4.	On the edit page
1.	The MAC Address will be prefilled.
2.	Please add a description of the following format <Building> - <Room> - <Device> - <Network>
3.	Check the Static Group Assignment box and set the dropdown to ResNet_IOT_Device then press save.

Error! Filename not specified.
	The user should now be able to connect via bypass, and going back into the edit screen will show these settings
Viewing Endpoint Authentications
The RADIUS Authentications report allows you to see un/successful authentications against the Rutgers networks. This is most useful when attempting to troubleshoot a connection issue or when guiding a user through the configuration process.
1.	Login to ISE
2.	Select Work Centers > Reports.
3.	Select Reports > Network Access Reports > RADIUS Authentications.
o	We recommend clicking the Lock Button next to this report to save it as your default when you open the reports page as this is the most commonly used report.
Error! Filename not specified.>Error! Filename not specified.
4.	On this page you can search by a variety of different information.
o	Identity searches for the NetID or other username a user has entered in their configuration.
o	Endpoint searches for matching MAC addresses.
	This accepts a variety of formats (i.e. dash, colon, and no delimiter).

Error! Filename not specified.

Error! Filename not specified.

Error! Filename not specified.
o	By default this page displays the most recent sessions from the last day. When assisting a user if they're actively attempting to connect that may be all that's needed, but if they had sessions previously you would not see them unless you change Logged At to a greater time interval.
5.	RADIUS status shows whether or not the attempted authentication was successful.
6.	Other information is available scrolling to the right, a helpful column is Failure Reason, the columns can be dragged-and-dropped; so we recommend moving that near the Endpoint ID for easy viewing:

Error! Filename not specified.
o	If you see a red status the failure reason can provide needed insight on the cause better than our previous tools were able to.
o	The bottom authentication has a failure reason indicating its an LDAP error, since we see the proper username, the password is likely the cause of the issue and the user may be entering it wrong or it may have expired (in this case a bad password was deliberately entered).
o	The top authentication failure shows an incorrect username, and a failure reason indicating a bad protocol. This is a device that was misconfigured during manual setup using the wrong authentication methods, the user would need to re-perform their endpoint setup.
7.	Clicking on the details icon for a specific authentication displays in depth information about the authentication.

Error! Filename not specified.
o	We can see similar information here as in the report list.
o	This will also display the AP the user is connected to under Called-Station-ID.
o	If this is a detail report for an authentication failure the failure reason will be listed under Authentication Details.
8.	Clicking on a NetID will bring up daily authentication history.
Viewing Endpoint Sessions
The RADIUS Accounting report shows information on network sessions and can show the session length and the IP address.
1.	Login to ISE.
2.	Select Work Centers > Reports.
3.	Select Reports > Network Access Reports > RADIUS Accounting.
4.	This page shows session data for a given NetID or Mac Address.
o	Like the previous report, this defaults to one day showing the most recent sessions if no filters are added.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Clicking the details icon shows further information about the authentication session including the network they connect.
6.	Clicking on a NetID or Endpoint ID will bring up daily authentication history.
" KB0016356 Assessment PlayPosit – Accommodations and Moderation for Learner Success "
Rutgers University is committed to ensuring equal access to information, programs, and activities through its technologies, web pages, services, and resources for all its constituencies. Please refer to Rutgers IT Accessibility: Course Accessibility Guidelines.
PlayPosit is a visual learning tool that allows instructors to build lessons into videos so that students can learn while viewing a video. The tool lets instructors use a library of videos from YouTube, TEDx, and other video-hosting websites, including Rutgers MediaSpace, powered by Kaltura. Instructors can add quizzes or text lessons to help facilitate learning during the course of a video. The goal of PlayPosit, is to have students learn at their own pace in a fully online setting. Video content may provide some challenges for your learners, depending on their needs. The scenarios below, with links to support articles, may help you provide accommodations for your learners.
What is the student experience using PlayPosit?
This article describes the Student Experience using PlayPosit 3.0. Instructors may search the Premade Bulb library for the bulb entitled “The PlayPosit Learner Experience” to share with your students in preparation for graded assignments.
How can I learn more about PlayPosit accessibility?
Please review the article on PlayPosit Accessibility that covers topics such as PlayPosit 3.0 VPATs, PlayPosit accessibility roadmap, player keyboard shortcuts, and equation editor accessibility tips.
How do I allow one student multiple attempts without making a new assignment?
Instructors may reset the learner attempt. Alternatively, the assignment can be configured to require a minimum completion score. Minimum completion scores will not sync to Canvas until the learner has met the requirement and should not be used with Broadcast assignments or interactions that require manual grading. Instructors may set individual interactions to allow multiple attempts for all users.
How do I allow one student the ability to rewind a video?
While there is no specific setting to allow for different learners to have different behaviors during the bulb assignment, instructors may opt to support learners by exporting a worksheet of the bulb interactions as a preview of the content to come in the video. This worksheet may be made available to students who request it or added as a PDF link in the Canvas assignment details. PlayPosit bulb settings may be edited to allow all learners the ability to rewind a bulb. 
How do I allow students to view the video after bulb attempts are complete?
Students can always view a read-only version of the video after attempts are complete as long as the Canvas assignment is accessible with no available date restrictions.
" KB0015362 Assessment Respondus Lockdown Browser & Monitor - Screencastify error "
You may receive an error when opening Respondus Lockdown Browser that says you need to remove Screencastify from Google Chrome. Screencastify is a screen recording and editing tool available as a Google Chrome extension.
Removing Screencastify from Google Chrome
To remove Screencastify, follow the steps below.
1.	Open Google Chrome.
2.	Click the three dots on the upper right of the browser.
3.	Click Extensions.
4.	Scroll down and find Screencastify.
5.	Click Remove under Screencastify.
Once Screencastify is removed, close Google Chrome and open Respondus LockDown Browser to see if you can access the Rutgers Canvas homepage. If so, you should be able to access your Canvas Quiz accordingly.
Removing Screencastify from Microsoft Edge
To remove Screencastify, follow the steps below.
1.	Open Microsoft Edge.
2.	Click the Extension icon and choose Manage extensions.
3.	Scroll down and find Screencastify.
4.	Click Remove under Screencastify.
Once Screencastify is removed, close Microsoft Edge and open Respondus LockDown Browser to see if you can access the Rutgers Canvas homepage. If so, you should be able to access your Canvas Quiz accordingly.
Other Troubleshooting Options
If removing Screencastify from your list of extensions does not work and opening Respondus LockDown Browser still prompts you to remove it, it is possible that another profile in your Google Chrome browser also has it.
Please switch to any other profile associated with the Chrome browser. See Switching profiles within Google Chrome.
If you are unable to access these profiles (family member, colleague, friend, etc.), fully remove the profile to remove Screencastify from your Chrome browser. See Remove a profile in Google Chrome.
Once Screencastify is removed from all profiles or all other profiles have been deleted, please open Respondus LockDown Browser.
If you continue to receive the same error, complete the following actions:
1.	Remove any user data that is located with Chrome by following this file path:
o	PC: C:\Users\userid\AppData\Local\Google\Chrome\User Data\Default
o	MAC: Users//Library/Application Support/Google/Chrome/Default
2.	Uninstall Google Chrome, then reinstall Chrome.
If you are unable to remove the extension or completely uninstall it from Google Chrome, you will need to use another computer to take an exam or quiz that requires LockDown Browser. You can also reach out to the Canvas Help Desk for assistance.
Information in this guide can also be found in the Respondus article – Screencastify error.
" KB0016351 Assessment Respondus LockDown Browser & Monitor – Getting Started for Instructors "
This document outlines the steps for instructors who would like to increase quiz or exam integrity by requiring LockDown Browser and the integrated Monitor for students to complete their assessment through Canvas Quizzes.
LockDown Browser is an application that must be downloaded. Providing a practice quiz before your assessment will help students identify technical issues. If your student has difficulties, you may need to make alternate accommodations. This tool does not restrict students from using other internet-enabled devices (tablets, smartphones, etc.) to search the web or a Canvas site.
Supplemental material can be found in Rutgers Canvas Commons by searching "Respondus Set-up".
Respondus LockDown Browser is only used in conjunction with Canvas Quizzes. It cannot be used with Canvas Assignments; however, both Classic Quizzes and New Quizzes support File Upload questions.
•	How do I create a File Upload quiz question in Classic Quizzes?
•	How do I create a File Upload assessment question using New Quizzes?
Table of Contents
•	Walk Through Instruction Video
•	Chromebook Extension Information
•	How to Enable LockDown Browser
•	How to Enable Respondus Monitor
Walk Through Instruction Video
 
Chromebook Extension Information
The Respondus LockDown Browser Extension is available for use with Chromebooks. While many security features are present, some features and behaviors are not available to students using Chromebooks. Known issues and limitations with the Chromebook Extension should inform your exam questions because these limitations may affect your students’ ability to complete your exam. These issues and limitations are:
•	LockDown Browser’s Calculator and Spreadsheet features aren’t currently supported.
•	The extended keyboard functions (for adding symbols and special characters) aren’t currently available.
•	LockDown Browser’s “Help Center” is currently unavailable, and there is no Live Chat support for students taking exams that require Respondus Monitor. The 
•	“Allow access to specific external web domains” option is currently not supported.
•	“Google Chrome OS can’t open this page” error will occur. Click Close on the error, and you should be able to proceed.
•	Exam feedback for “classic” quizzes is not yet compatible when viewed later. Feedback is viewable only in the same LockDown Browser session in which the exam was taken.
•	If a student is using a managed Chromebook that is configured and maintained by a school or organization, then the student may not have adequate permissions to install the Respondus LockDown Browser Extension. 
How to Enable LockDown Browser
1.	Access your Canvas course from the course dashboard or the Courses menu.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click LockDown Browser in your course navigation. If you do not see LockDown Browser in your course navigation, please enable it by managing your course navigation links. If this is the first time you are accessing LockDown browser, you will be asked to Authorize the application.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Review Video Tutorials, Getting Started, and Resources.
4.	For the desired Canvas quiz, click the drop-down menu next to the assessment name.
5.	Click Settings.
6.	Select the radio button labeled Require Respondus LockDown Browser for this exam to expand the options.  This radio button must be selected to turn on the LockDown Browser, preventing students from copying and pasting, printing, taking screenshots, accessing other programs, etc. LockDown Browser is required to use Monitor – you cannot use the Monitor feature without also using the LockDown Browser option.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Click to expand the Advanced Settings menu. 
1.	Require LockDown Browser to view post-exam feedback and results - If feedback and/or results are displayed after the exam, this option will require that LockDown Browser be used to view them.
2.	Lock students into the browser until the exam is completed – (Not Recommended). Typically, this box is checked only when LockDown Browser is used to proctor in-person exams. Checking this box can cause issues if, for example, the student’s internet connection is interrupted. They will remain locked in the browser until they forcibly restart their computer.
3.	Allow access to specific external web domains - This option can be used if, as part of the exam, the instructor has site(s) that they permit the students to access. This can be used to allow access to e-books or other approved online resources. For publisher materials, please test with a true student account (not just Student View).
4.	Enable Calculator on the toolbar - Use this option if a calculator is allowed or required during the exam. The students will not be able to start the calculator software included with their system, and the use of an external calculator will be flagged when the student looks away from the screen.
5.	Enable Printing from the toolbar – (Not Recommended)

     Error! Filename not specified.
8.	Click Save + Close.
How to Enable Respondus Monitor
     Error! Filename not specified.
1.	Select the radio button to Require Respondus Monitor for this exam if you would like this to be a video proctored exam. You can choose to have LockDown Browser record either the Webcam Only, both the Webcam and Screen, or Screen Only. 
2.	Select the radio button to Allow instructor live proctoring for this exam (via Zoom, Teams, etc) if you would like to utilize Live Proctoring for this Exam.  Further guidance on this can be found within the Live Proctoring section.
3.	In Startup Sequence, all options are enabled. Keep in mind that while completing these tasks does not count against the exam timer, they still take time to complete. If your exam is scheduled for one hour, it is useful to provide students with an earlier start time or a later end time to allow for these steps to be completed. 
o	Webcam Check – Requires the student to test their webcam before taking the exam. (This setting cannot be changed.)
o	Additional Instructions – You can enter additional instructions that will be displayed. 
o	Guidelines + Tips – The system displays helpful hints before the exam starts.
o	Student Photo – Requires the student to take a photo using their webcam
o	Show ID – Requires a student to take a picture of their ID. Many students are uneasy about providing state- or federally issued ID photos because they include additional private information. To avoid this concern, students should be informed in advance that they should use their Rutgers ID if you choose to require the submission of a photo ID.
o	Environment Check – The student will need to tilt/pan their webcam or laptop camera to show their working environment.
o	Facial Detection Check – The system will verify that it can detect a face using the webcam. (This setting cannot be changed.)
4.	Click Preview to demo the student experience.
5.	Where appropriate, Edit Text to provide more guidance for your students.
6.	Expand Facial Detection Options to ensure students remain in view of the webcam. 
o	Prevent students from starting the exam if face cannot be detected during startup sequence. Keeping this feature enabled is recommended.
o	Notify students during the exam if face cannot be detected. Keeping this feature enabled is also recommended so students are alerted if their face leaves the screen for any reason (e.g., the camera is covered or the student's hair or clothing obscures their face).
7.	Expand the option for Advanced Settings. Instructors may choose to use any of the settings below.  
1.	Allow use of an iPad for this exam - This enables the iPad Edition of LockDown Browser to be used with exams (download from the App Store). Because proctoring flags are based on webcam video, it's recommended that students be provided with instructions for using the iPad (e.g., position it vertically, place it on a stand, use an external keyboard). Note that screen recordings aren't available for iPad users. Also, the Excel option below cannot be selected at the same time as this option.  
2.	Allow switching to MS Excel during the Exam – This option requires the desktop version of the selected application to be installed on the student's computer, and is only available when Screen Recordings is selected above. Students using an iPad or Chromebook will not be permitted to access the test. Also, the proctored lab option cannot be selected at the same time as this option.  
3.	Allow this exam to additionally be delivered in a proctored lab – Students will have the option to use a web camera or to take the exam in a proctored computer lab. Instructors must share the password only with the exam proctor. See How does the optional setting in Respondus Monitor work?
4.	Enable "Show Your Work" step at the end of the exam – When checked, students must use their webcams to take photos of their worksheets and scratch paper. See Using the “Show Your Work” feature in Respondus Monitor. Expand Advanced Settings and check all that apply. 
8.	Second Camera 
o	Enable this option to require students to use two cameras during the exam: their primary webcam plus a mobile device camera. Students will scan a QR code with their mobile device to set up the second camera view. Click "Explain" to preview what students will see during setup.
9.	Click Save + Close
10.	To verify that Respondus Lockdown Browser and/or Monitor are enabled, you will see the following changes in your course: 
o	The Respondus Dashboard indicates whether Lockdown Browser & Monitor are required, only Lockdown Browser is required, or only Monitor is required.
o	Your Canvas Quiz name is changed and appended with “- Requires Respondus LockDown Browser” or “- Requires Respondus LockDown Browser + Webcam.” In this example, there is no name change when Lockdown Browser is not required (A), Requires Respondus LockDown Browser + Webcam (B) is added with LockDown and Monitor enabled, or Requires Respondus LockDown Browser (C) is added with only Lockdown Browser.

     Error! Filename not specified.

Note: Do not delete appended name changes, or Lockdown Browser will not recognize the exam.
11.	Your Canvas quiz settings are updated to reflect your Lockdown Browser/Monitor settings. 

     Error! Filename not specified.

In this example, Respondus Lockdown Browser and Monitor (Web camera required) are required to take the assessment. Lockdown Browser is required to view the answers. 
" KB0016352 Assessment Respondus LockDown Browser & Monitor – Getting Started for Students "
LockDown Browser is a browser that blocks access to other internet resources during quizzes and exams in Canvas. It prevents you from printing, copying, going to another URL, or accessing other applications during an assessment. If a quiz or exam requires LockDown Browser to be used, you will not be able to take the quiz or exam with a standard web browser.
LockDown Browser should only be used for taking Canvas Quizzes. It should not be used in other areas of Canvas.
Table of Contents
•	Duo Two Step Login with LockDown Browser
•	Installing LockDown Browser for Windows or Mac
•	Installing LockDown Browser for Chromebooks 
o	Known Issues with LockDown Browser for Chromebook:
•	Installing LockDown Browser for iPads 
o	Known Issues with LockDown Browser for iPad:
•	Taking a Quiz/Exam with Lockdown Browser
•	Taking a Quiz/Exam with Lockdown Browser & Monitor
•	Common Issues 
o	I have a Chromebook. Can I use Respondus Lockdown Browser?
o	I am using a Chromebook but the App Store is locked. How do I unlock the App Store?
o	When I launch Lockdown Browser, why am I asked to turn off a browser plug-in?
o	Should I turn off my antivirus software to take a quiz with Lockdown Browser?
o	I am stuck on step 8a; the Webcam check. How do I get passed it?
Duo Two-Step Login with LockDown Browser
To authenticate with Duo when using the LockDown Browser, you will need to have an external device registered with Duo, such as a phone, tablet, or hardware token. The device must be set up to allow authentication through either the Verified Duo Push, Call, or SMS Passcode option.
Note: Touch ID authentication will not work in the LockDown Browser. If your Duo account is set to default to Touch ID, the LockDown Browser will automatically close. If this occurs, you must either remove the Touch ID authentication method from your Duo account or add a new device to Duo.
See Adding, removing, and renaming devices for two-step login with Duo.
Installing LockDown Browser for Windows or Mac
If LockDown Browser has already been installed, skip to the section on taking a quiz/exam with LockDown Browser. If not, LockDown Browser must be installed on each computer (Windows or Mac) being used to take a quiz or exam. You must have administrative rights to install the Lockdown Browser.
1.	Navigate to the quiz or exam that will be using the Lockdown Browser.
2.	Click Take this quiz.
3.	You should see a hyperlink that says “Download Respondus Lockdown Browser". Clicking this will bring you to the download page.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click the Install Now button to download a zip file (.zip) for Windows or a dmg file (.dmg) for Mac.
5.	Open the downloads folder and run the file titled “Install Respondus Lockdown Browser.”
6.	Accept the terms, select the location where you want Respondus installed on your computer, and then complete the installation.
Note: If you have an older version of the browser already installed, you may need to uninstall it and install the latest version using the instructions above. 
Installing LockDown Browser for Chromebooks
If LockDown Browser has already been installed, skip to the section on taking a quiz/exam with LockDown Browser. If not, the LockDown Browser extension must be installed on each Chromebook being used to take a quiz or exam. You must have administrative rights to install extensions in order to install the LockDown Browser extension. You cannot install the LockDown Browser extension on Managed Chromebooks. 
1.	Navigate to the quiz or exam that will be using the Lockdown Browser.
2.	Click Take this quiz.
3.	You should see a link labeled “Download Respondus Lockdown Browser.” Clicking this will bring you to the Chrome Web Store.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	From the Chrome Web Store, click Add to Chrome to install the LockDown Browser Extension.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	An “Add LockDown Browser?” message will appear. Select Add Extension.

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	The LockDown Browser for Chromebook extension has been installed.
7.	Restart your Chromebook.
8.	Navigate to the quiz or exam in Canvas to continue.

     Error! Filename not specified.
9.	After you have completed your assessment, you may uninstall or disable the Chromebook extension.
Please note that cookies and cache may cause issues when using LockDown Browser for Chromebooks. It is recommended that you clear your cache and cookies.
Known Issues with LockDown Browser for Chromebook:
•	Quiz passwords (specified via the “optional password” field in the LockDown Browser Dashboard) aren’t currently supported for exams that use only LockDown Browser. For exams requiring Respondus Monitor, the optional password field is supported.
•	LockDown Browser’s Calculator and Spreadsheet features are not currently supported.
•	The extended keyboard functions (for adding symbols and special characters) aren’t currently available.
•	LockDown Browser’s “Help Center” is currently unavailable, and there is no Live Chat support for students taking exams that require Respondus Monitor.
•	“Allow access to specific external web domains” option is currently not supported.
•	“Google Chrome OS can’t open this page” error will occur. Click the “close” button on the error, and you should be able to proceed.
•	Exam feedback for “classic” quizzes is not yet compatible when viewed later. Feedback is viewable only in the same LockDown Browser session in which the exam was taken.
Installing LockDown Browser for iPads
If LockDown Browser has already been installed, skip to the section on taking a quiz/exam with LockDown Browser. If not, LockDown Browser must be installed on each iPad being used to take a quiz or exam. You must have administrative rights to install applications in order to install Lockdown Browser.
1.	Download and install the "LockDown Browser" app from the Apple App Store on the iPad. (Requires iOS 11 or higher.)
2.	Navigate to the quiz or exam that will be using the Lockdown Browser.
3.	When you start a quiz that requires LockDown Browser, you should see the following message. You must click "Yes" to open the LockDown Browser app.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	If you do not see the above confirmation message, but rather see a message that says your instructor has not enabled the use of a tablet for your exam, you will need to use LockDown Browser on a Windows or Mac computer.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Once you click "Yes" to confirm "app self-lock," you will see a message confirming that your iPad is now locked to LockDown Browser.

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	 After you submit the exam, you'll see confirmation that your iPad is no longer locked to LockDown Browser. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	You can now either take another exam or exit the LockDown Browser app.
Known Issues with LockDown Browser for iPad:
•	The LockDown Browser for iPad is not compatible with the Canvas iPad app. When taking a Canvas quiz that requires the use of the LockDown Browser for iPad, the Canvas iPad app must be uninstalled. Failure to do so will result in the LockDown Browser being unable to load the quiz properly. Once completed, the Canvas iPad app may be reinstalled onto the iPad.
Taking a Quiz/Exam with Lockdown Browser
1.	Close all programs currently running.
2.	Locate the LockDown Browser shortcut on the desktop and double-click it. (For Mac users, launch “LockDown Browser” from the Applications folder.) 
o	Note: For quizzes using Canvas New Quizzes, you will need to first launch your quiz in your regular browser. You will be prompted to use Respondus Lockdown Browser.

     
3.	If prompted to close a blocked program (e.g., screen capture or instant messaging), choose Yes.
4.	In the Choose Server dialog box, select Rutgers Canvas and click OK. You will be taken to the Canvas login page, where you can log in and access your course.
5.	Click Courses in the global menu. You cannot enter the quiz or exam from the Canvas Dashboard.
6.	Click on your course name.
7.	Navigate to the quiz or exam and select the Take a Quiz link.
8.	Once a quiz or exam has been started with LockDown Browser, you cannot exit until the Submit Answers button is clicked.
9.	After completing your quiz or exam and clicking Submit Answers, close LockDown Browser and log back into your course using your preferred browser before doing any additional work in the course.
Taking a Quiz/Exam with Lockdown Browser & Monitor
Your instructor may notify you that you will need a webcam to complete your Canvas Quiz. Respondus Lockdown Browser and integrated Monitor will be used to ensure exam integrity. Your quiz or exam name will include indicators that you will use Respondus Lockdown + Monitor. The quiz or exam name will end with "Requires Respondus LockDown Browser + Webcam".
     Error! Filename not specified.
1.	Close all programs currently running.
2.	Locate the LockDown Browser shortcut on the desktop or in your applications menu and double-click it. (For Mac users, launch “LockDown Browser” from the Applications folder.) 
o	Note: For quizzes and exams using Canvas New Quizzes, first launch your quiz or exam in your regular browser. You will be prompted to use Respondus Lockdown Browser.
3.	If prompted to close a blocked program (e.g., screen capture or instant messaging), choose Yes.
4.	In the Choose Server dialog box, select Rutgers Canvas and click OK. This will take you to the Canvas login page, where you can log in and access your course.
5.	Click Courses in the global menu. You cannot enter the quiz from the Canvas Dashboard.
6.	Click on your course name.
7.	Navigate to the quiz or exam and select the Take a Quiz link.
8.	Lockdown Browser will launch the Startup Sequence to verify your identity and your testing environment. The Startup Sequence is the set of events that occur before a Respondus Monitor webcam session begins. Your instructor may choose to include all items in the Startup Sequence or omit some, and may provide customized directions for you. 
1.	Please read the Terms of Use. Click Agree.
2.	Please verify your camera is working properly for the Webcam Check. Click Yes.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	 Please read the Additional Instructions. Your instructor may add information here. Click Continue.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Guidelines and Tips provide general best practices for taking a test with Respondus Monitor. Click Next to advance through all screens.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Using your web camera, take a photo of yourself by clicking Take Picture. You may try again until you have a well-lit photo. Click Continue.

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Hold your student ID up to your webcam, then click Take Picture. You may try again until you have a well-lit photo. Click Continue.

     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	As directed, clear your desk of paper and books. Click Start Recording, then slowly pan your webcam around your desk. Click Stop Recording.

     Error! Filename not specified.
8.	Step 8 – The Facial Detection Check will display feedback if your face cannot be detected. Click Continue when your face is detected. You may need to adjust your camera placement or your lighting.

     Error! Filename not specified.

     Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Click Begin Exam.
1.	Your quiz or exam will launch.
2.	Click Take the Quiz.
3.	Review the quiz/exam directions displayed.
4.	Once your quiz or exam has started in LockDown Browser, you cannot exit until the Submit Answers button is clicked. Your web camera will automatically turn off once you submit your assessment.
5.	Close and exit the browser.
6.	Log back in to your course using your preferred browser before doing any additional work.
Additional Respondus LockDown Browser & Monitor Settings
Your instructor may require additional settings for your exam, such as a second camera or the use of Microsoft Excel or Word.
•	Setting Up a Second Camera for a Respondus Monitor Exam
•	Using Microsoft Excel or Word with Respondus Monitor
Common Issues
If you have problems downloading, installing, or taking a test with Respondus LockDown Browser, you may contact the Canvas Help Desk.
I have a Chromebook. Can I use Respondus Lockdown Browser?
The Chromebook extension for Respondus LockDown Browser is available for Rutgers Canvas. Please refer to Installing LockDown Browser for Chromebooks and take note of the known issues section.
I am using a Chromebook, but the App Store is locked. How do I unlock the App Store?
If a user is logged into their Chromebook with their Scarletmail (Rutgers Gmail) account, then the App Store may be locked. Please log in to your Chromebook with a personal Google account. The App store will be unlocked, and you will be able to log into Canvas to complete your quiz or exam.
When I launch Lockdown Browser, why am I prompted to disable a browser plug-in?
Respondus Lockdown Browser, Google Chrome, Opera, and Microsoft Edge are all Chromium-based browsers with source code from the open-source Chromium Project.
The Rutgers Canvas Help Desk has seen issues where Google Chrome extensions interfere with Respondus LockDown Browser. Disabling all Chrome extensions has resolved the error.
•	How do I manage Chrome extensions?
•	Screencastify error
Should I turn off my antivirus software to take a quiz with Lockdown Browser?
It is recommended that you temporarily disable your antivirus software prior to taking a quiz with Lockdown Browser. Some programs may not interfere with Lockdown Browsers. However, if you receive the “illicitly modified, this program will now close, and your instructor has been notified” error message, this is due to Webroot Antivirus software.
After you have submitted your Canvas quiz/exam and ended your proctoring session, please re-enable your antivirus software.
I am stuck on step 8a, the Webcam check. How do I get past it?
Please refer to this article by Respondus Support if Respondus Monitor cannot detect or configure the webcam. 
•	You may need to update Respondus LockDown Browser.
•	Restart your computer.
•	Turn off applications that use your webcam.
•	In LockDown Browser, visit the Help Center and run the system check.
•	Change your webcam settings in LockDown Browser.
•	Turn off your antivirus program.
•	Roll back your video driver if your camera stopped working with other applications.
" KB0016367 Assessment Respondus Lockdown Browser & Monitor – How do I access the quiz with Lockdown Browser? "
Your instructor may notify you that you must use Respondus Lockdown Browser to take your quiz or exam. For setup instructions, please refer to Lockdown Browser – Getting Started for Students. The method to access your quiz or exam will depend on which version of Canvas Quizzes your instructor is using. Visually, you cannot determine which quizzing engine your instructor is using until you click into the quiz. You only need to install Respondus Lockdown Browser once, but you will either open LockDown Browser to access your Quiz (Classic Quizzes) or LockDown Browser will launch from your usual browser (New Quizzes).
Lockdown Browser and Canvas Classic Quizzes
When you access a quiz or exam created as a Classic Quiz, the displayed settings will let you know that Respondus Lockdown Browser is required.

     Error! Filename not specified.
1.	To download Respondus Lockdown Browser, click Take the Quiz. The notice will indicate that you will need to access the quiz through Respondus Lockdown Browser.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	For Canvas Classic Quizzes, you will first launch Respondus Lockdown Browser, navigate to your course, and then click Take the Quiz.
Video Guide for Lockdown Browser and Canvas Classic Quizzes
Lockdown Browser and New Quizzes
When you access a quiz or exam created as a Quizzes (New Quizzes), Canvas will open a new browser and prompt you to download Respondus Lockdown Browser.
Error! Filename not specified.
1.	Download and install Respondus Lockdown Browser.
2.	Return to your Canvas course in your original browser and launch your quiz or exam again. A new tab will open and you will be prompted to open Lockdown Browser.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click Open LockDown Browser.
4.	Your quiz or exam will launch directly.
Video Guide for Lockdown Browser and New Quizzes
     
" KB0016365 Assessment Respondus Lockdown Browser & Monitor – Issues using Respondus outside the US "
Respondus Monitor, the remote proctoring software, may not work properly for some students in international locations, including China. Instructors with students outside the US should test the system with a practice quiz AND have a backup plan (such as a one-on-one makeup via Zoom or Webex) in case the system doesn’t work for a student on test day.
Questions?
•	Rutgers University–Newark: help@newark.rutgers.edu
•	Rutgers University–Camden: idt@camden.rutgers.edu
•	Rutgers University-New Brunswick and Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences: help@canvas.rutgers.edu or your local instructional support group
" KB0016368 Assessment Respondus Lockdown Browser – How to install two versions to use with Rutgers and another institution "
The version of Lockdown Browser available in Rutgers Canvas differs from the version used by other institutions or required for certain exams offered by textbook publishers; each download file is tied to an institutional license or a textbook publisher. If you need to use Lockdown Browser to take an exam or quiz in both Rutgers Canvas and another institution or through your online textbook as part of a partnership program, then you will need to install two versions of the application on your computer.
Note: The directions below assume you have the one version already installed on your computer
Windows
1.	Follow the directions to download and install Lockdown Browser.
2.	Select the option for a second institution.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click Next.
4.	In your Windows Start menu, you will now see two versions of Lockdown Browser.

Error! Filename not specified.
macOS
1.	Navigate to your Applications folder.
2.	Locate your existing Lockdown Browser copy.
3.	Right-click to show the mouse menu.
4.	Click Rename.
5.	Rename the application to include the version (School 1 Name).
6.	Follow the directions to download and install Lockdown Browser. You may opt to rename the second version for Canvas.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017201 Assessment WeVideo - Creating Accessible Videos "
Table of Contents
•	Accessible Questions
•	Add alternative text to an image
•	Add alternative text to an equation
•	Accessible Videos  
o	Captioning
o	Audio Descriptions 
 
On May 19, 2026, PlayPosit transitioned to the WeVideo Platform.
Accessible Questions
Students who are blind or have low vision may utilize special software such as screen readers to read out loud questions, any text-based information, and content created using the text editor. 
If you insert an image or an equation into a WeVideo interaction, you must add alternate text so that the information conveyed in the visual content is available to all your students. 
Add alternative text to an image
After uploading the image with the rich text editor, instructors can enter the alternative text in the Alternative description section. The alternative text will be read out for the learners using a screen reader and will also be displayed to the learners if the image fails to load. 
Error! Filename not specified.
Note: When adding images to a WeVideo playlist, instructors will not be able to enter the image description. Instead, the screen reader will read out the image's file name. Please change the file name to the desired alternative text before uploading it to the WeVideo playlist.
Add alternative text to an equation
When entering an equation with the equation editor, please replace the text in the Label section with the alternative text for this equation. The screen reader will read out the alternative text. For example, using the NVDA screen reader:
•	2+6=8 reads as "2 plus 6 equals 8", BUT
•	(2+6)2 reads as "2 plus 6 2", but should read as "parenthesis 2 plus 6 parenthesis squared".

Error! Filename not specified.
Accessible Videos 
Captioning
Captioning allows deaf and hard of hearing students to access your content.
The following process is recommended:
1.	Upload your video to Kaltura.
Whether you have created your own video or are using one from a third-party like YouTube, you can host that video in Kaltura MediaSpace. Kaltura videos can be automatically captioned, and if you have a student with a disability, it can be sent to a third party for professional captioning. 
o	Note: If you have a student with a disability approved for captioning, please reach out to radr.aslcart@echo.rutgers.edu to ensure that your videos are being professionally captioned.
2.	Select Kaltura when creating a new interactive video, and search for your Kaltura video.
3.	Click Customize then Captions. 
o	Note: The captions are uploaded when the video is linked from Kaltura. Later, if professional captions are completed, you will need to go back and edit the video to upload the new VTT file for the video. If Kaltura's automatically-generated captions are not complete when the interactive video is created, the captions will not appear in the dropdown to view available captions.
To add captions manually after uploading the video: 
1.	In your list of interactive videos, click Edit.
2.	Click the Video Segments tab.
3.	Click the Pen icon on the top right of the interaction.
4.	Click Edit Video Segment.
5.	Switch to the Accessibility tab and under Captions, select the file.
6.	Upload your VTT or SRT caption file (which can be downloaded from Kaltura). 
It's recommended to edit any automatically-generated captions in Kaltura before uploading them to WeVideo. Please review How to Edit Kaltura Captions.
Audio Descriptions 
For blind students, the video may need audio descriptions, which are additional tracks that allow the user to listen to words displayed on the screen or actions described in the video. If you are creating your own videos, you should read out anything presented on the screen, whether text on a slide or describing images being displayed.
If a student is blind in your course, please get in touch with radr@echo.rutgers.edu to determine if your video requires audio descriptions.
" KB0016357 Assessment WeVideo – Getting Started for Instructors "
On May 19, 2026, PlayPosit transitioned to the WeVideo Platform. WeVideo is available in Canvas to be used with your videos, including Kaltura, YouTube, and Vimeo.
To create a WeVideo account associated with the Rutgers license, course instructors will need to launch WeVideo in Canvas first. When you are creating an interactive video and choose to add a Kaltura video to your interactive video, you will see your Kaltura videos.
Create an External Tool Assignment for WeVideo
1.	Log in to Canvas and navigate to the course you would like to connect to WeVideo.
2.	Select Assignments (A) from the left column menu and click + Assignments (B).

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Enter an assignment title in the Assignment Name field. 
4.	Add assignment points, descriptions, and select an assignment group. 
5.	Scroll down to Submission Type. 
1.	Select External Tool from the dropdown.
2.	Click Find and select WeVideo from the Configure External Tool menu.

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	In the Link Resource from the External Tool window, you may visit the WeVideo Knowledgebase (A), set a link to an existing WeVideo Interactive Video (B), or to create content.

     Error! Filename not specified.
o	Note: Your WeVideo account has been created and authenticated. You are encouraged to view your WeVideo User Account to establish a password for access to the WeVideo standalone website and set Interactive Video defaults.
7.	Select Create New Interactive Video to start a new video project.
8.	If you have created a WeVideo interactive video, you can click on the Canvas icon to link the interactive video to your Canvas Assignment.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0016360 Assessment WeVideo – How do I give grader access for WeVideo only? "
On May 19, 2026, Playposit transitioned to the WeVideo Platform.
In some cases, a Canvas instructor may have a grader assisting them. If the grader is an undergraduate, then it is advisable that the undergraduate grader not have access to the full Canvas gradebook. The steps outlined below allow a Canvas user to grade WeVideo content without access to the Canvas gradebook.
1.	Enroll the (undergraduate) grader in a TA role in your Canvas course.
2.	Direct the grader to launch one WeVideo assignment in your Canvas course. This will add the user as a collaborator in WeVideo.
3.	Direct the grader to view their WeVideo User Account to establish a password to access the WeVideo standalone website.
4.	Remove the TA role from the grader in Canvas. This will remove access from the Canvas gradebook.
The undergraduate grader will now have access to all of the interactive videos assigned in that course.
Note: If an interactive video is assigned to the course after the TA role is removed, the grader will not have access to the newly assigned WeVideo content. Make sure all interactive videos are assigned to your course before applying the TA role.
" KB0016361 Assessment WeVideo – I only see two videos and the video pauses. How do I answer the questions? "
On May 19, 2026, Playposit transitioned to the WeVideo Platform.
When viewing a video assignment in Canvas, content creators may have opted to display a second video stream in the sidebar. The video will pause when the timeline (scrubber) has reached an interaction. Assignment viewers will need to switch to the question tab to proceed with the assignment.
Error! Filename not specified.
When a video has two streams (screen share or desktop and a web camera), content creators have two options for placement of the second video stream during assignment playback in WeVideo. The second stream, by default, appears as a picture-in-picture in the lower right of the screen. Alternatively, content creators may elect to show the second stream in the sidebar. This is the location where video interactions (questions) usually appear.
When an interaction occurs, video will pause and switch to the interaction within the sidebar. Video assignment viewers will need to answer and complete the interaction to continue the video.
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0016450 Audience Response and Engagement EchoEngage – How to add EchoEngage to your Canvas Course as a New User "
To register an instructor account in Canvas, instructors will launch EchoEngage as follows. 
1.	Click EchoEngage Registration in your course navigation. If it is not listed in your course navigation, manage your course navigation links through your course settings.
2.	Click PointSolutions.
3.	Click the Canvas tab in Turning Technologies.
4.	Find your course and click Add.
5.	Click Active Courses.
6.	Click Select.
Additional Resources
EchoEngage Resource Guide
" KB0017606 Banner Support Banner Password Issues "
Common Banner issues
Common issues you may encounter:
•	Can’t log in
•	Can’t submit a job
•	Can’t run a query in Access
•	Can't access SRL
You may be getting one of the following messages:
•	A warning that your Banner password is expired.
•	When you are running a query in Access, and after you have entered your Banner username and password, the Oracle Change Expired Password dialog box appears.
•	After you enter your NetID and password on the CAS login screen and you get an error "account is locked; logon denied". 
•	A "Logon Error #4".
These are all related to your Banner password. Follow the steps below to reset your password. 
Note that after 3 unsuccessful logins to Banner, your account will be locked. 
Resetting Banner password
1.	If your account is locked, contact the Faculty/Staff Help Desk (848-445-4357) option 2, and ask them to unlock your account.
2.	Once your account is unlocked, go to the MyRutgers portal, click on Apps (Icon with 9 squares) and search for "Banner Self Service" to get to the Banner portal.
3.	Select the BANR1 – Password change utility link.
4.	Click on ** Credential Manager - Change Banner password for BANR1 database. 
5.	Type in a new password following the requirements on the previous screen. 
o	Password length must be at least 6 characters and contain at least one digit and one character.
o	If using the Student Report Library, the password must start with a character.
o	Password should not contain any special characters like !"#$%&()``*+,-/:;<=>?_@
o	Password you enter must be different than the last 10 used.
6.	Select Save.
7.	You will see a message confirming the password updated successfully. You can then close the window.
8.	Wait about 20 minutes before accessing a third party application to make sure that the password has update.
BANNER HIST login issue
Email banner-support@oit.rutgers.edu to create a ticket for this password to be updated.
" KB0017605 Banner Support How do I access Banner? "
You can log into Banner using your NetID and NetID password. 
1.	Go to the MyRutgers Portal and select Apps (Icon with 9 squares).
2.	Search "Banner Self-Service" and click on the icon that appears.
3.	Log in with your NetID and NetID password.
4.	After successfully logging in, you'll be brought to the home page. 

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0012555 Banner Support How to email students in a class using Banner Self-Service for RBHS faculty "
Banner Self-Service allows instructors to email all students in their class by following the instructions below.
1.	To access Banner Self-Service, login to my.rutgers.edu and select the Banner Self-Service tile.

    Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Select Faculty Services.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Select Summary Class List.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Select a Term and then click Submit. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Select a CRN and click Submit. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Scroll down on the page to access the email section.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Select Display Email List to show student emails.

Error! Filename not specified.
8.	Highlight all the displayed emails to select them and copy the email addresses.

Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Create a new email and paste the email addresses into the BCC field of your preferred email client. **It is important to use the BCC field to keep student contact information confidential from other students.**
" KB0019249 Banner Support Self-Service Banner 9 Instructional Resources Page "
This guide provides two sets of step-by-step instructions, one for Faculty & Advisors and one for Students, designed to help navigate and become oriented to the new Self-Service Banner 9 environment.
Each set of instructions includes an overview of the SSB9 interface, guidance on common tasks, and a Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) section that addresses typical scenarios you may encounter. Throughout the documents, embedded hyperlinks connect you to more detailed explanations within the same guide, making it easy to move from high-level orientation to task-specific instructions.
Please select the set of instructions that best matches your role to get started. 
•	Faculty & Advisors Instructions [PDF]
•	Student Instructions [PDF]
" KB0014727 Box Box account audits "
Who can have a Box account?
According to Office of Information Technology guidelines, only the following classes of people are eligible to have Box accounts: 
•	Current employees of Rutgers University
•	Current students
•	Professor Emeritus
•	Guests: individuals who are conducting University business and are directly associated with the University, but are not officially on the University's payroll. For example, visiting professors/scholars, members of auxiliary groups, and others who are working on University business or affiliated with the University. 
The following groups of people are not eligible for Box accounts:
•	Former employees
•	Employees of other organizations who are performing work at Rutgers
•	Alumni
•	Retirees
Any of the above may be eligible for a guest account if a department or division of Rutgers is willing to sponsor them. Please see the Guest Account page for further information.
Recently re-hired employees who have not yet been added to the RIAS payroll system and thereby given a Faculty or Staff role may have their department's payroll person use the Early Employee NetID form to request an early role.
How can I keep my Box account?
We determine which accounts should be closed by comparing Box accounts with the active roles (e.g., Faculty or Staff) of NetIDs listed in the University’s OpenRegistry (OR) service, which is used as the basis for the Rutgers Online Directory. The OR may have some information that needs to be corrected.
If you have received an account closure notice and you believe that this is in error, please find the group you belong to in the appropriate subsection below (Current Employees, Students, Guests, Others) and follow the instructions there.
Current Employees
You may not be listed in the OR as a current employee. To check this, go to the Search for People tool and search for your name. Review each result if you get more than one. If your name does not appear, contact your department’s Human Resources person.
When your entry appears, review the information there. If it is incorrect, contact your department’s Human Resources person.
After your department’s Human Resources person has corrected your record, your department’s Rutgers Delegated Administrator can verify that your account is no longer subject to closure.
Students
You may not be listed in the OR as a current student. To check this, go to the Search for People tool and search for your name. Review each result if you get more than one. If your name does not appear, please inquire about your registration via One Stop.
When your entry appears, review the information there. If it is incorrect, please inquire about your registration via One Stop.
OIT cannot permit prior students (such as students on leave and alumni) access to Box, as the system contains Restricted data such as Protected Health Information (PHI).
Guests
Guests must determine with their sponsor if Box is appropriate for their needs.
If you are affiliated with Rutgers but not employed full-time by Rutgers, you may request a guest account. Have a sponsor at the department you are working with go to the Guest Account site, and submit a request for you, which will be sent to our Accounts Office for processing. NOTE: A domain administrator within your department must activate a Box account for you. 
Every year, you must renew your guest account. You will be notified when the time to renew your account arrives (30 days before the expiration of the account).
Your Rutgers Delegated Administrator can assist your sponsor with submitting a Guest Account request and creating your Box account, if necessary.
Others
Retirees and alumni are not eligible for a Box account. 
If you do not fit into any of the above categories, you may want to try contacting a department at Rutgers related to your work and ask if they would be willing to sponsor a Guest account for you.
We have no mechanism for people no longer associated with Rutgers to pay a fee and thus keep their accounts. 
What is the typical account audit timeline?
Once an account is found to be ineligible for Box:
•	On day one, i.e., same day found to be ineligible: The account is sent an email notification.
•	On day seven, i.e., approximately one week later: The account is closed and any existing collaborators will lose access to personally owned files. To avoid this scenario, transfer any University-owned data to a departmental resource such as a Box shared drive or a Microsoft Team.
•	On day thirty-five, i.e., approximately 5 weeks later: The account is deleted from Box.
If the account is found to be eligible for Box at any time prior to deletion, the account will exit the audit.
Like all Rutgers NetID services, Box is subject to OIT NetID authentication processes. These practices may lock your Rutgers NetID – including Box access – on a different timeline. Visit https://eas.rutgers.edu/?ht_kb=off-boarding-process for details about NetID authentication off-boarding. Recent students in the “grace period” status described on that site are ineligible for Box. However, OIT will maintain data for the full duration of the “grace period” – the “day thirty-five" deletion does not apply in this case.
What should I do before the account is closed?
If you will be losing your Box account, you may want to take some of the following steps.
•	Visit the Service Management page. Under the Box section, click Show Box Collaborators to review a list of any files/folders that are shared to/from your account, as well as the individuals associated with those shares. 
•	Notify your regular collaborators of your account audit. Ensure any shared files that are still needed are transferred to a departmental resource, such as a Box shared drive or a Microsoft Team. 
•	Contact the IT staff in your department to determine the correct protocol for the data in your account. Departments that handle PHI or other sensitive data may have procedures put in place for security.
•	You will lose access to your Box data once your account is deleted, so you will want to save any files you may continue to need to another location. Please contact your local IT staff to assist with this process.
What happens after the account is closed?
After your account is closed, you will lose access to your Box account, and you will no longer be able to sign in to the account.
Approximately 4 weeks after your account is closed, your Box account will be deleted.
After an account is deleted, you will no longer be able to access any files. 
For further assistance
If you have questions about any of the above, you can send an email to help@oit.rutgers.edu or contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0012461 Box Box at Rutgers "
Box is available to all faculty, staff, students, and guests (guests must be permitted to create an account, at which point their Delegated Administrators or the OIT Help Desk can provision one). Box allows for storing restricted data, such as files containing protected health information (PHI). Box supports all Windows, MacOS, Android, iOS, and Linux devices and has a full-featured web interface that can be used on other platforms. The service is used widely in higher education, and information can be shared with anyone.
Availability: All faculty, staff, students, and guests
Storage limit: 5 terabytes
File size limit: 50 gigabytes
File limit: Unlimited (15,000 per limit per folder recommended for performance)
Speed limits: 4 files per second upload
Access methods: Windows Client, MacOS Client, Android App*, Apple iOS App*, Linux (rclone), Web
Document versions: Unlimited
PHI permitted: Yes (in restricted folders managed by certified IT staff)
Integrated with Canvas: Yes
•	Content viewers must have an account: No
•	Instructors and viewers must add appropriate email to Canvas settings: No
•	Content viewers must also use the same tenet: No
* Mobile device management required.
To access Box at Rutgers, please navigate to the Box page and select Sign Up or Login.
To learn more, please visit the getting started with Box article. 
 
" KB0012462 Box Box delegated administrator training "
Administrators who still need to go through training can download and view a recorded video of one of the training sessions.
The slide deck that was used in the training is also available.
HIPAA training is also required for DAs who will have access to PHI. 
Access to the training sessions requires a Box account. If you have not yet provisioned a Box account, you must create your Box account. 
Related Information
Troubleshooting uploads to Box
" KB0012463 Box Box delegated admins "
Welcome to the Delegated Admins page, where you can find answers and information to deliver Box services to your department effectively. Below are links to documents you can reference (they are also reachable via submenu items).
Related links
•	Delegated administrator training
•	Delegated administrator setup procedure
•	Guide to the management of Box groups
•	Guide to shared folders
•	Managing Box users in Connect Admin Tool (CAT)
•	Group management and RAD synchronization (Quickstart guide)
•	Group management and RAD synchronization (Extended Guide)
" KB0012464 Box Box group management and Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) synchronization (extended guide) "
Table of Contents
•	RAD -box-sync groups
•	Why create more sub-OUs?
•	What if I don’t want to use sub-OUs?
•	Group flattening
•	Setting Box Group Admins
•	Group naming conventions
•	Warnings & notes
•	Examples 
o	Correct
o	Correct
o	Incorrect
o	Incorrect
•	Additional information
•	Rationale behind the requirement for internal consistency of separators
This is an extended guide to Box Group Management and RAD synchronization.
In the Rutgers Box tenant, groups are managed through RAD and then synchronized to Box. They are not managed in Box itself. This guide explains how delegated administrators can do this and provides a number of examples.
If you are looking for a brief overview of the process instead, please see the Box/RAD group sync quickstart guide.
What you will need:
•	An -adm account in RAD
•	Ability to manage RAD groups in your OU
•	An -adm account in Box
RAD -box-sync groups
Not all RAD groups are synced with Box. If you would like a RAD group synced to Box, you must indicate that by making it a member of a box-sync group in your OU.
There are two valid locations for a -box-sync group: in your top-level OU or in a sub-OU one level down. You can have as many of the latter as you want, so long as they are in different sub-OUs.
Any group in your OU can be a member of your top-level -box-sync group, but the -box-sync groups in sub-OUs can only contain member groups in the same sub-OU. If you make a group which resides outside of the OU or sub-OU a member of one of your -box-sync groups in RAD, that group will not sync to Box.
NOTE: -box-sync groups are only used to mark groups for synchronization and are not themselves groups in Box. As such, they should not contain any users directly. If you add users to a -box-sync group in RAD, they will be ignored during synchronization.
Why create more sub-OUs?
This allows for large units to use delegated administration more effectively. By parsing groups into sub-OUs, units do not have to give one department’s delegated IT staff access to manage RAD groups in the entire unit.
What if I don’t want to use sub-OUs?
If you have a small unit or do not want to use -box-sync groups in sub-OUs for any other reason, you do not have to use them. Simply place all of your OU groups that you want synced to Box into your top-level OU’s box-sync group.
Group flattening
Box does not support nested groups. When RAD groups, which contain other groups as members, are synchronized to Box, they must produce a flattened group in Box. Only the top-level group becomes a group in Box, but all of the members of all of its subgroups in the same OU/sub-OU are included (aside from -adm accounts, which are a special case addressed in the next section of the guide).
If you want a group to appear in Box, each member must be individually a member of an appropriate -box-sync group. If it is only a subgroup of a -box-sync group member, it will not become a group in Box, although its members will be included in the parent group that is synced to Box.
Setting Box Group Admins
Any -adm accounts in a RAD group synced to Box are made into group admins in Box, provided that the admin has an -adm account in Box. Box group admins will have permissions to manage shares for the group.
Unlike regular users, -adm users in subgroups of a group that is synchronized to Box do not become members of the parent group in Box. That would have the unintended side effect of making a delegated administrator for a sub-OU into a Box group admin for an OU-wide group. -adm accounts must be placed directly into any groups synced to Box.
If your -adm account is not a member of a group you marked for synchronization to Box, the group can still be synced. However, you will be unable to see it. Groups in our tenant are only visible to their members and admins, so it may appear on your end as though the synchronization did not work. A person must be a group admin of a specific group in order to see it in the Admin Console, and must be a group admin of at least one group in Box to see the Admin Console at all.
Group naming conventions
1.	The top-level -box-sync groups must be named [ou]-box-sync. The -box-sync groups one level down must be named [ou]-[sub-ou]-box-sync or [ou] [sub-ou]-box-sync depending on your separator preference (space or hyphen).
2.	RAD groups that you want to be synced to Box should be named in one of the following ways: 
o	[ou]-[freeform portion]
o	[ou] [freeform portion]
o	[ou]-[sub-ou]-[freeform portion]
o	[ou] [sub-ou] [freeform portion]
3.	There is no limit on how many sub-OUs a group name can contain. For example, the following is fine:   
o	[ou]-[sub-ou1]-[sub-ou2]-[sub-ou3]-[freeform portion]
4.	Both spaces and hyphens are valid separators, but each individual group name must be internally consistent.
5.	Your top-level -box-sync group can contain a group named [ou]-[sub-ou]-[freeform portion] and a group named [ou] [sub-ou] [freeform portion] without any issues, but a group named [ou]-[sub-ou] [freeform portion] or [ou] [sub-ou]-[freeform portion] is not correctly formatted.
6.	If a group that is poorly formatted in this way is placed in your top-level -box-sync group, it will still sync, but if it is placed in a sub-OU’s -box-sync group, it will not be recognized as part of that sub-OU and will not sync to Box.
*This is a deliberate choice to avoid ambiguity, not a limitation of the sync script.
The “Additional information” section of this page contains answers and explanations that may be handy.
NOTE: -box-sync groups are a special exception to the internal consistency requirement; if you want to use spaces to separate your top-level OU and sub-OUs, you can do so while using the required hyphen to separate the sub-OU from “box-sync.” For example, “Pets Cats-box-sync” is as valid as “Pets-Cats-box-sync.”
Warnings & notes
•	Synchronization is not instantaneous; identifying new or renamed RAD groups and the addition/deletion of members occur every half hour.
•	Once a RAD group has been synchronized to Box, deleting the RAD group or removing it as a member of its -box-sync group will break synchronization. Do not move or delete a Box-synchronized group in RAD unless you no longer want to use the group in Box.
NOTE: The -box-sync groups are unrelated and should not be confused with the Box Sync client. Box is promoting Box Drive over Box Sync until they phase Box Sync out completely.
•	The group will be renamed in RAD to indicate an error in synchronization, so this broken state will be readily apparent to end users.
•	The group’s membership will be retained as it was after the last successful synchronization — it will no longer be editable in any way. Shares to the group will be unaffected.
•	In the case of a moved group, moving it back to its original location will resolve the issue automatically. However, there is no easy fix for a deleted group.
o	If you no longer wish to use a group in Box, you can move or delete it in RAD and then request that Box support delete the group in Box (Note: please be sure to provide the Group Name).
•	You can add users to a RAD group marked for synchronization to Box even if they do not have a Box account.
o	Without a Box account, they cannot be immediately added as a member of the group in Box; however, when they activate a Box account, they will automatically be added to all of the groups they were previously made a member of.
•	Currently, this addition will happen the next time the sync script runs, but instant addition of newly-activated Box users to their assigned groups is in the works.
•	Group names containing parentheses are not supported.
Examples
For the examples in this guide, we will use the hypothetical delegated administrator “netid1” who manages the “Pets” OU.
First, we will consider examples using the top-level -box-sync group for the OU.
 
Correct
[OU] Pets
[GROUP] Pets-box-sync
[GROUP] Pets-Dogs-All Dogs
[USER] netid1-adm
[GROUP] Pets-Dogs-Golden Retrievers
[USER] netid1-adm
[USER] netid2
[USER] netid3
[GROUP] Pets-Dogs-Corgis
[USER] netid1-adm
[USER] netid4
[GROUP] Pets-Dogs-Corgis
[USER] netid1-adm
[USER] netid4
This will result in two groups being created in Box (Pets-Dogs-All Dogs and Pets-Dogs-Corgis). If a group is placed in a -box-sync group, members of its subgroups are synced as members of that parent group in Box, so Pets-Dogs-All Dogs would contain netid1-adm, netid2, netid3, and netid4.
 
Correct
[OU] Pets
[GROUP] Pets-box-sync
[GROUP] Pets Cats Bengals
[USER] netid1-adm
[USER] netid5
[OU] Dogs
[GROUP] Pets-Dogs-box-sync
[GROUP] Pets-Dogs-Golden Retrievers
[USER] netid1-adm
[USER] netid2
[USER] netid3
This will result in two groups being created in Box (Pets Cats Bengals and Pets-Dogs-Golden Retrievers).
NOTE: Groups in the “Pets-Dogs-box-sync” group must also be in the “Dogs” sub-OU of “Pets,” while groups in the “Pets-box-sync” group do not have that restriction and only need to be in the “Pets” OU. Also note that both spaces and hyphens are fine as separators so long as each individual name uses them consistently.
 
Incorrect
[OU] Pets
[GROUP] Pets-box-sync
[USER] netid1-adm
[GROUP] Pets-Dogs-Golden Retrievers
[USER] netid2
[USER] netid3
[GROUP] Pets-Dogs-Corgis
[USER] netid4
[OU] Dogs
[GROUP] Pets-Dogs-box-sync
[USER] netid1-adm
[USER] netid2
[USER] netid3
 
Incorrect
[OU] Pets
[OU] Dogs
[GROUP] Pets-Dogs-box-sync
[GROUP] Pets-Cats-Bengals
[USER] netid1-adm
[USER] netid5
[GROUP] Pets-Dogs Siberian Huskies
[USER] netid1-adm
[USER] netid6
[OU] Retrievers
[GROUP] Pets-Dogs-Retrievers-box-sync
[GROUP] Pets-Dogs-Retrievers-Golden Retrievers
[USER] netid1-adm
[USER] netid2
[USER] netid3
This Will Result in 0 Groups Being Created in Box!
A -box-sync group in a sub-OU can only contain groups in the same sub-OU. Therefore, “Pets-Cats-Bengals” cannot be included in “Pets-Dogs-box-sync,” because it is in the Cats sub-OU and not the Dogs sub-OU. “Pets-Cats-Bengals” should be placed either in a top-level “Pets-box-sync” group or else in a “Pets-Cats-box-sync” group in the Cats sub-OU.
Because “Pets-Dogs Siberian Huskies” does not use separators consistently, it is interpreted as being a group named “Dogs Siberian Huskies,” which resides directly in the Pets OU. Because it is not considered to be in the Dogs sub-OU and -box-sync groups in sub-OUs can only contain groups in the same sub-OU, it cannot be synced.
There is a maximum depth of one for -box-sync groups. “Pets-Dogs-Retrievers-box-sync” is simply never looked at, regardless of its correct formatting.
Additional information
Enterprise Infrastructure’s guide to RAD
General management of Box Groups
Please contact help@oit.rutgers.edu if you have any questions.
Rationale behind the requirement for internal consistency of separators
Consider a hypothetical group whose name contains a space or hyphen in the freeform portion of its name, like “TestBox Box-Users.” Because the first separator used is a space, the script will only consider spaces as separators in this group name, so the group name is parsed as “[TestBox] [Box-Users]” (a single OU and then a freeform portion). This is the intended behavior.
If there were no requirement for internal consistency and both spaces and hyphens were treated as separators in all cases, the name would be parsed as “[TestBox] [Box] [Users]” (an OU, a sub-OU, and a freeform portion). If this group were placed in TestBox’s top-level -box-sync group, it would sync to Box and, at first glance, appear to be working. However, this would lead to unpleasant surprises. If “TestBox Box-Users” contained “TestBox Admins,” the members of “TestBox Admins” would not be synced because the “TestBox Admins” group would not be in the mistakenly-identified “Box” sub-OU.
" KB0012465 Box Box group management and Rutgers Active Directory synchronization (quickstart guide) "
This article will provide a brief overview of how to use RAD to manage your unit’s groups in Box.
If you are looking for a comprehensive, detailed description of the process, please see the page "Group management and RAD synchronization (extended guide)."
Setting Box group admins
To make someone an admin of a Box group, add their -adm account directly to the RAD group to be synced. Unlike regular users, -adm users in subgroups of a group that is synchronized to Box do not become members of the parent group in Box. A person must be a group admin of a specific group in order to see it in the Admin Console, and must be a group admin of at least one group in Box to see the Admin Console at all.
RAD -box-sync Groups
If you would like a RAD group synced to Box, you must indicate that by making the group a member of a “-box-sync” group in your OU.
There are two valid locations for a -box-sync group: in your top-level OU or in a sub-OU one level down. The top-level-box-sync groups must be named [ou]-box-sync. The -box-sync groups one level down must be named [ou]-[sub-ou]-box-sync or [ou] [sub-ou]-box-sync.
Any group in your OU can be a member of your top-level -box-sync group, but the -box-sync groups in sub-OUs can only contain member groups in the same sub-OU. Groups located elsewhere will not sync to Box.
Group flattening
Box does not support nested groups. When RAD groups containing other groups as members are synchronized to Box, they must produce a flattened group in Box.
If you want a group to appear in Box, it must be a member of an appropriate -box-sync group. If it is only a subgroup of a -box-sync group member, it will not become a group in Box. However, its members will be included in the parent group synced with Box.
Group naming conventions
RAD groups that you want to be synced to Box should be named in one of the following ways:
•	[ou][separator][freeform portion]
•	[ou][separator][sub-ou][separator][freeform portion]
Both spaces and hyphens are valid separators, but each individual group name must be internally consistent and use one or the other.
-box-sync groups are a special exception to the internal consistency requirement; if you want to use spaces to separate your top-level OU and sub-OUs, you can do so while using the required hyphen to separate the sub-OU from “box-sync.” For example, “Pets Cats-box-sync” is as valid as “Pets-Cats-box-sync.”
Warnings and notes
Synchronization is not instantaneous; it occurs every half hour.
Once a RAD group has been synchronized to Box, deleting the RAD group or removing it as a member of its -box-sync group will break synchronization. Do not move or delete a Box-synchronized group in RAD unless you no longer want to use the group in Box. If you no longer wish to use a group in Box, you can move or delete it in RAD, then delete it in Box.
You can add users to a RAD group marked for synchronization to Box even if they do not have a Box account. Once they activate a Box account, after the next sync interval, they will automatically be added to all of the groups they were previously made a member of.
NOTE: Group names cannot have any parentheses. In addition, the entire OU path cannot have any parentheses character.
Related links
Enterprise Infrastructure’s guide to RAD
General Management of Box Groups
Please contact box_support@oit.rutgers.edu if you have any questions.
" KB0012466 Box Box on Android with Enterprise Mobile Management (EMM) "
Install Box through the Intune portal
The InTune Company Portal application is required to use Box. If you do not already have it installed on your device, you can find instructions for downloading and installing it on the Rutgers Enabling Mobile Device Management for Android page.
1.	Open the Intune Company Portal App. Be sure to open the Work version of the app. It has the briefcase in the orange circle on the icon.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Choose Apps, then you’ll see an icon for the Play Store.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click the Play Store icon, then install Box.
4.	Once Box is installed, click Open, and you’ll be presented with the welcome screen. Click Login.
5.	Input your email in the format of netid@rutgers.edu. Then click Authorize.

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Logging in will redirect you to sign in with your NetID and NetID password.
7.	Once you’ve signed in through Rutgers CAS, you will be taken to the Box home page.

Error! Filename not specified.
8.	You are now ready to use Box on your Android Device.
If you previously installed the standard version of Box (without the briefcase in the orange circle), you should remove it from your device unless you have another Box account that you plan on accessing using that application. The Box application from the regular Google Play store will not work with Rutgers Box.
" KB0012467 Box Box on iOS with Enterprise Mobile Management (EMM) "
In order to download and use Box at Rutgers for the iPhone, you need to install Intune mobile device management (MDM) software.
You can view instructions on how to download and install the Intune Company Portal App on the Rutgers Enabling Mobile Device Management for iOS page.
Install Box through the Intune portal
1.	Open the Intune Company Portal App.
2.	On the screen where you can download and manage apps, click on Apps.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Input Box in the Search bar, then press search.
4.	Choose the Box app to open it.
5.	Click on Install. The download may take a few minutes, don’t attempt to cancel or to restart the process. 
o	NOTE: Make sure to download the Box for Emergency Mobile Management (EMM) through the Intune app.
6.	Once installed, open the Box app. Click Log In.
7.	Input your Rutgers login credentials in the format of netid@rutgers.edu.
8.	Logging in will redirect you to login with your NetID and NetID password.
9.	Once you’ve signed in through Rutgers CAS, you will be taken to the Box home page.
" KB0012475 Box Cloud storage comparisons "
There are several different options for storing and syncing your data in the cloud. This guide is here to help you decide which kind of storage is right for you.
Rutgers requires that all university business be conducted on university-approved services. For example, faculty and staff email must be conducted using Rutgers Connect. In the case of storage, there are several storage categories and different options within each category. This page will help you choose among the approved cloud storage options of Box, OneDrive (Rutgers Connect), and Google Drive (ScarletApps).
Security and compliance
The first consideration when choosing a service is determining which ones are appropriate from a security and compliance standpoint. Federal and state laws, as well as university policies, govern where data can be stored. In general, information that is highly confidential and classified as restricted information can be stored in Rutgers Box and Rutgers Connect OneDrive. It is inappropriate to store this type of information in ScarletApps' Google Drive or any university information in any personal account, even a personal Box or OneDrive account.
For more detailed information about what can and cannot be stored in each type of storage service, please see the data classification and storage matrix.
Recommendations
After considering the security and compliance restrictions, multiple services can be used to provide data storage and sharing services concurrently. Before making a decision, you should consult the IT support staff in your organization.
In general, OneDrive and Box are equivalent services in terms of how data can be stored.
Choose Box if:
You will frequently transfer large amounts of data because Box is typically faster.
Choose Microsoft OneDrive if:
You require seamless integration with Microsoft Office software and tools.
Choose Google Drive if:
You require seamless integration with Google Apps:
•	When sharing data (that isn’t restricted) with students, Google Drive is listed as preferred simply because all students automatically have a Google Apps account created when enrolled. Students must open their account first to use Box. This process is simple, but it requires an extra step for the student. When students use OneDrive, this account is automatically created for them, but it is not integrated with Google Apps like Drive.
•	The services are similar in many respects, but certain tasks can be easier depending on the service. For example, since OneDrive is a Microsoft service, Microsoft Office apps easily support it. You can save and retrieve files easily and have recently accessed document lists sync between different computers. Box is a general storage service, so all software, including Microsoft Office, can work with it, but without the additional features that Microsoft builds in.
Other considerations
It’s also worth noting that these three products only represent one type of storage and that they are not appropriate for all purposes. This type of storage is not suited for storing databases that will be accessed by multiple people or for other software that requires very high-speed access to files. If you have special needs beyond general file storage and retrieval, please consult your IT support professional to determine which service is right for you.
" KB0012476 Box Collaborating with Box "
Box has a video demonstrating how to quickly and easily share files. You can also view their support articles on collaboration. 
" KB0012491 Box Delegated administrator setup procedure in Box "
The process to have your area set up in Box is as follows:
1.	If you don’t already have an elevated NetID account, you should request one by visiting the Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) page. You’ll need this later.
2.	If you have not yet been assigned delegated administrator permissions, have an existing DA for your domain submit the Changes to Delegated Administration form on ServiceNow. If you are just becoming a Delegated Administrator for Box, an existing DA can provision your admin account through the Cloud Admin Tool (CAT).
3.	Once you have DA privileges and the elevated NetID account, you should be able to activate your Box admin account by navigating to the Box section on the Service Activation page. Below your account info, you will see an additional button to activate. 

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	After you click Activate Service, you will be able to verify that the netid-adm Box account was created on the same page. You should see something similar to the image below.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	At this point, existing Box admins for your domain will be able to work with you to help set up your access to the shared accounts within your domain.
If you are making this request as a part of a domain that does not have existing Box administrators or shares setup, you will need to fill out the Box Shared Account Request Form in order to get assistance with an initial setup. You can contact OIT Box Support at box_support@oit.rutgers.edu for assistance with an initial setup or setting up and adjusting existing shared accounts. For requests like these, provide the following information:
•	The number of shared accounts you require. Generally, it's recommended to have one shared account for a domain that administrators can then create top-level departmental shares for individual groups within that domain that need departmental storage. While it's possible to set up additional shared accounts for more specific groups within a domain, that can make managing all of them harder than having everything in one primary share account. Areas that handle PHI will require two accounts — one for non-PHI and one for PHI data. If you aren’t handling PHI data, you’ll likely only need one account. You can create as many folders and shares as you need under the single shared folder and even set different permissions, so more than one shared folder will almost never be required.
•	If you need more than one shared folder (two for units that will store PHI), please explain why the additional shared accounts are needed.
Your request will be sent to the following groups:
•	Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) team: They can create an OU in RAD if you don’t already have one. They will reach out if they have any questions about your submission and then create your OU and Box Sync Group in RAD. Access will be granted to the delegated administrator’s elevated NetID account.
•	OIT Box Support Staff: They will review the application and contact you if they have any questions.
Related links
Guide to managed folders in Box
Guide to the management of Box groups
Managing Box users in Connect Admin Tool (CAT)
Group management and RAD synchronization (quickstart guide)
Group management and RAD synchronization (extended guide)
Find your department's Delegated Administrators
" KB0012520 Box Getting setup as a delegated administrator in Box "
If you don’t already have an elevated NetID account, you should request one here through the Rutgers Active Directory (RAD). You’ll need this later.
Complete the Box Request Form by contacting box_support@oit.rutgers.edu.
Account and information
The number of shared accounts you’ll need may require a conversation with OIT Box Support. Typically, areas that handle PHI will require two: one for non-PHI data and one for PHI. If you aren’t handling PHI data, you’ll likely only need one account.
You can create as many folders and shares as you need within a single shared folder, and even set different permissions, so more than one shared folder will almost never be required.
If you need more than one shared folder (two for units that will store PHI), please use the comment field to explain why additional shared accounts are needed.
Application details
Your applications will be sent to:
•	The Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) team can create an OU in RAD if you don’t already have one. They will reach out if they have any questions about your submission and then create your OU and Box Sync Group in RAD. Access will be granted to the delegated administrator’s elevated NetID account.
•	The OIT Box Support Staff. They will review the application and reach out to you if they have any questions.
Once the information in the form is reviewed and approved, the person you designated as your Unit Head will receive an email from DocuSign. You should give them a heads up that this email is coming because the process can’t move forward until they respond. A sample of the document they will be asked to approve can be viewed here.
After OIT Box Support receives the DocuSign signature, a shared account for your area will be created, and permission will be granted to the delegated administrator’s elevated NetID.
OIT Box Support will notify you that your Box shared account is set up and ready for use.
Before creating a folder structure in Box, we strongly recommend reviewing the Guide to Managing Folders in Box.
" KB0012521 Box Getting started with Box "
Please visit the basics of Box article for more information on how to get started.
" KB0012531 Box Guide to managed folders in Box "
Storing important and/or sensitive information
Files that are important to a user’s department unit or contain sensitive information should not be stored directly in an individual user’s private Box folder. Such data should instead be owned by the unit’s shared account and placed in a shared folder to which the user is granted access.
Requesting a shared account
When your unit begins using Box and submits a request form for delegated administrators, a shared account can be requested at that time.
If you are already an approved delegated administrator for your area, you can simply email the OIT Box support address requesting a shared account. (Address is intentionally not included. General support inquiries should be sent to the appropriate OIT Help Desk). You must indicate:
•	Whether the account will be used to hold PHI in any of its subfolders (if so, the name of the top-level folder will be prefixed with “(Restricted)”)
•	Provide the desired name of the account as well as the reason your unit needs a separate shared account rather than a subfolder of your existing share if applicable
If your request is approved, you will be made a co-owner of the new shared account’s top-level folder. You can then add any other existing delegated administrators your unit would like to maintain the shared account as additional co-owners of the top-level folder.
Using shared folders
As a general rule, you should not share the top-level folder of the shared account to your users, as this grants them access to all data your unit has stored in Box, including, for example, PHI or other sensitive information. Additionally, if you grant them an editor role with this share, they can change the name of your unit’s top-level folder. Instead, you should make use of subfolders to manage permissions for users more granularly.
Once you have been made a co-owner of the shared account’s top-level folder, you can create subfolders as many levels deep as you would like. Only subfolders directly shared with users will appear in their list of files and folders when they log into Box, but they can see the name of the top-level folder if they inspect the subfolder shared with them.
Recommendation: Because the name of the top-level folder may not be immediately visible when looking at a shared subfolder, the names of any subfolders individually containing restricted data must be prefixed with “(Restricted),” but this is up to you to the delegated administrator to enforce.
A subfolder can be shared with an individual Box user or an entire Box group. This allows you to easily share information with your entire unit or departments and subgroups within your unit. Please note that you must be a group admin of any group to which you wish to share files or folders. Only group admins can share with a group to prevent unwanted mass sharing by end users. For more information on sharing to groups, please see the Box Group Management.
Related links
Creating and managing Groups
Delegated administrator setup
Guide to managing of Box Groups
Guide to shared folders
Managing Box users in the Connect Admin Tool (CAT)
Group management and RAD synchronization (quickstart guide)
Group management and RAD synchronization (extended guide)
" KB0012532 Box Guide to the management of Box groups "
Being a Box Group Admin
Only group admins can share with groups in the Rutgers implementation of Box. This is to prevent unwanted mass shares, especially to large groups. A person must be a group admin of a specific group to see it in the Admin Console and must be a group admin of at least one group in Box to see the Admin Console at all.
Creating and managing Box Groups
Group creation and member management are done in Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) and then synchronized to Box. For you to be a group admin of the Box group, your -adm NetID must be a member of the RAD group. Please refer to Group management in RAD synchronization (extended guide) for more information on group synchronization.
You can delete a group in Box, which will break any existing shares to the group. However, unless you delete the group in RAD or move it out of any -box-sync groups in RAD as described in the link above, a new group with the same name and memberships will be re-created automatically.
Sharing to Box Groups of which you are a Group Admin
If you have sharing permissions for a file or folder in your unit’s shared account (this requires a co-owner or editor role, as detailed in Box’s guide to collaborator permissions), you can go to the Admin Console, select the group in question, click to edit the list of folders shared to the group, and add the folder you wish to be shared to the group.
Sharing to Box Groups of which you are NOT a Group Admin
If you need to share a file with a Box group outside your unit, you will need to coordinate with the unit's delegated administrators who manage the target group. Reach out to one of these admins, let them know you are sharing a file or folder with their admin account, share the file or folder with them, and ask them to share it with the target group.
If another unit’s delegated administrator wishes to share something with one of your groups, once they contact you and share the file or folder with your admin account, then you can share it with your group as you would any file or folder you originally owned.
If you do not know who the Delegated Administrators are for another unit, you can find the unit's Delegated Administrators' email address.
Additional Information
Please contact help@oit.rutgers.edu if you have any additional questions or concerns.
Related links
Creating and managing groups
Delegated administrator setup
Managing Box groups
Guide to shared folders
Managing Box users in Connect Admin Tool (CAT)
Group management and RAD synchronization (quickstart guide)
Group management and RAD synchronization (extended guide)
" KB0012541 Box How do I log into my Rutgers Box account? "
After you have created your Rutgers Box account, you can log into your account from the following options:
•	Rutgers Box Website
•	Generic Box Website
•	Box App Center for MacOS or Windows
•	Box Mobile for iOS or Android 
Below are the directions for logging into each of the different locations.
Rutgers Box Website
1.	Navigate to the Rutgers Box Website. 
2.	Select Continue.
3.	Log in with your NetID and NetID password.
Generic Box Website
1.	Navigate to the Generic Box Website.
2.	Select Log in on the upper right hand corner.
3.	Enter your email address as netid@rutgers.edu.
4.	Log in with your NetID and NetID password.
Box App Center for MacOS or Windows
1.	Download your desired Box Application at the Box App Center.
2.	Navigate to your installed Box App on your Windows or MacOS Device.
3.	Enter your email address as netid@rutgers.edu.
4.	Log in with your NetID and NetID password.
Box Mobile for iOS or Android
To log in to Box Mobile for iOS or Android, please follow the directions for Box on iOS with Enterprise Mobile Management (EMM) or Box on Android with Enterprise Mobile Management (EMM), respectively.
" KB0012552 Box How to create your Rutgers Box account "
1.	Navigate to the Service Activation page.
2.	Log in with your NetID and NetID password.
3.	Under Box select Activate Service.
o	Note: Guests who need accounts must be activated by a delegated administrator before the account can be set up. If you have a guest role, please contact your Delegated Administrator or the OIT Help Desk.
4.	You have now activated your Box account and will see a confirmation message. You can log in by going to the Box Home Page.
" KB0012599 Box Manage Box users in Connect Admin Tool (CAT) "
For the most part, delegated administrators in Box manage groups and shared folders rather than the accounts of individual users. However, there are several administrative capabilities available in CAT for delegated admins to work with their users’ accounts.
Which users can I manage?
Currently, admin permissions in CAT are handled based on the domain a user’s UPN is in. You will need to be a delegated Connect administrator for this domain to make changes to the user. If you are not a delegated administrator for the appropriate domain in Connect, you can reach out to the appropriate delegated admins using the Connect delegated administrator contact list and ask them to make any necessary changes.
Use the Connect delegated administrator contact list at the bottom of our OIT support page to find the appropriate delegated administrator's email address or contact information.
What can I do?
As stated in the introduction, delegated administration of Box does not entail a great deal of individual user account management.
Delegated administrators can view information about a user’s Box account, including whether it has been activated, the date it was activated if applicable, any aliases associated with the account, and more. 
Users’ Connect and @rutgers.edu aliases will be automatically synchronized to their Box accounts at regular intervals. Still, delegated administrators can click a button titled “Sync Box Aliases” to instantly sync aliases for a user. This feature will be removed once alias changes are instantaneous.
On the Collaborator's tab, you'll also see a list of any files/folders that were shared with/from that user, as well as the individuals or groups with which those shares are associated. If a collaborator's Box account is currently in the auditing/deprovisioning process, the row will be red to indicate that the share will go away soon. Please note that the collaboration report is generated once a week on Tuesday mornings.
Delegated administrators can provision a Box account for one of their users, but this should only be done for guests since they cannot select Box when they go through Service Activation.
Finally, delegated administrators can lock and unlock a user’s Box account. A NetID lock will automatically prevent the user from accessing their Box account. Still, if your unit wishes to restrict a user’s Box access while allowing them to retain access to other NetID-based services, they can selectively disable only a user’s Box account.
Additional information
Please contact help@oit.rutgers.edu if you have any additional questions.
Related links
Full guide to CAT 
Creating and managing groups
Delegated administrator setup procedure
Guide to shared folders
Managing Box users in Connect Admin Tool (CAT)
Group management and RAD synchronization (quickstart guide)
Group management and RAD synchronization (extended guide)
" KB0012706 Box Uploading and downloading files with Box "
View the guides on uploading or downloading files to and from Box.
" KB0012789 Box general FAQ """Someone"" downloaded my files in Box, what does this mean?" "
Box created the term “Someone” to identify a certain type of user that has downloaded a shared file. For more information, visit this Box page: “Someone” Downloaded My Files – What Does This Mean?
" KB0012802 Box general FAQ "Can I create an external password for Box, in addition to single sign on (SSO)?" "
Box users can create an external password in addition to SSO, but only through Secure File Transfer Protocol (SFTP). For more information and instructions, visit the Box page Box + SSO: Working with External Passwords.
" KB0012795 Box general FAQ Can I restrict the level of outside collaboration a user has in Box? "
Box has created a way to restrict users from creating externally shared folders. More information is available on Box's page on restricting external collaboration. 
" KB0012767 Box general FAQ Can the Rutgers community utilize Box with users and entities outside of the university? "
At this time, Rutgers users are authorized to use the Box tool to share content with outside entities, so long as both parties have a Box at Rutgers account. This regulation is in place to meet compliance policies.
Rutgers has approved the Rutgers community's use of Anonymous Link Sharing (ALS) for sending and receiving files.
Additional information on the approved methods for sharing with collaborators outside the University can be found on the Data Classification and Storage Matrix.
" KB0012771 Box general FAQ How can I permanently delete a Box file or folder from the trash? "
In the trash, a delete option is not available; only restore. Box is set to automatically delete files in the Trash after 60 days (versus the stock 30-day limit, unless under legal hold).
Note that you can recover files and folders from the Trash.
" KB0012797 Box general FAQ How can I take advantage of Box's accessibility features? "
Box partnered closely with its Accessibility Advisory Board to create a platform that is accessible to as many people as possible. Box has a dedicated accessible interface available on Box.com.
For more information, visit Box Support's page for Using app.box.com for Accessibility.
" KB0012786 Box general FAQ How can I use Box's Metadata to better organize my information? "
To learn how to use Metadata to organize your content and information, visit the Box page on Using Metadata.
" KB0012798 Box general FAQ "How do Box accounts differ between Faculty, Student, Guest and Outside Partner?" "
Rutgers University Box accounts all have the same functionality regardless of University affiliation. University Box access is available to those with a valid role with the University such as Faculty, Student, Staff, and Guest. Box is not available for Rutgers Alumni. 
" KB0012773 Box general FAQ How do I access previous versions of my files stored on Box? "
Whenever you upload a new file version to Box Edit, the app overwrites the file and stores previous versions for you to access anytime. For more information, visit the Accessing Version History page on the Box Support site. 
" KB0017205 Box general FAQ How do I check how much storage I have used in Box? "
1.	Navigate to the Rutgers Box login page. 
2.	Click Continue. 
3.	Sign in with your NetID and NetID password. 
4.	Select your profile icon in the top right corner. 
5.	Choose Account Settings. 
6.	Scroll down to the Account Details section. 
7.	Your total storage amount is listed under Storage Used.  
o	Located at the bottom of the page.
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0012770 Box general FAQ How would you compare Box with Microsoft's OneDrive? "
Box is an additional service that is offered to the Rutgers Community. It will not replace OneDrive. OneDrive will still be an accessible service that can be used by Rutgers Connect account users.
Additional information can be found on the Data Classification and Storage Matrix. 
" KB0012790 Box general FAQ "I am unable to view ""Sharing"" or ""Details"" for content on my Box account" "
Visit the Box page: Cannot View “Sharing” or “Details” Tab for information on how to expand your viewing options.
" KB0012793 Box general FAQ I have a file that I am unable to upload to Box Drive. "
You may be unable to upload certain file types or shortcuts that Box Drive automatically ignores or blocks. These include temporary files and folders, backup copies of files (.bak), and more. Learn more by visiting Box's page for File Types Ignored or Blocked by Box Sync and Box Drive.
" KB0012796 Box general FAQ I have some questions about Shared Links in Box. Where can I find some answers? "
Visit Box's FAQ on shared links.
" KB0012787 Box general FAQ I have some questions on how to use Box Edit. Where can I find some answers? "
Box has compiled an FAQ about Box Edit to help you troubleshoot and get the most out of your Box for iOS account. For more information, please visit the page: Box Edit Frequently Asked Questions.
" KB0012784 Box general FAQ I have some questions on how to use Box Notes. Where can I find some answers? "
Box Notes is a function that enables you to write, edit and collaborate on simple documents — in real time. Box has compiled the Box Notes FAQ to help you to get the most out of the functionality.
" KB0012800 Box general FAQ I'm having trouble with uploading content to Box "
Box has compiled a page full of ways to troubleshoot content uploads. Visit the Box support page for Troubleshooting Uploads to Box.
" KB0012803 Box general FAQ Setting stronger security measures for Box external collaborators "
You can find information on implementing stronger security measures in the article about Requiring Strong Passwords for External Collaborators.
" KB0012791 Box general FAQ What are the system requirements to install Box Edit v4? "
For information system requirements and installation of Box Edit v4, please visit the Box support page, Understanding System Requirements to Use Box Tools v4. 
" KB0012774 Box general FAQ What happens to my Box account once I leave Rutgers? "
Once you leave Rutgers, you will no longer be able to access your Rutgers Box account. You will be required to remove any data that you’re entitled take with you before your account is closed. You will be notified 30 days before account closure.
" KB0012779 Box general FAQ What happens when I watermark my Box files?
Watermarking your files provides an extra level of data security. Box’s watermarking features place a semi-transparent overlay containing either the recipient’s email address or the IP address (depending on whether they were logged in) and the time the invitee accessed the documents.
KB0012794 Box general FAQ What is the difference between collaboration and shared links in Box? "
Collaboration
A collaborator is an individual invited to a file or folder. Collaboration invites are a great way to share content for long-term projects. This will allow you to invite people to a file or folder and monitor updates over time.
To access a file or folder as a collaborator, the user must create a Box account. 
The file or folder will appear under All Files when they log in to their Box account. For more information, view Box Support's page about inviting collaborators. 
Shared Links
Shared links let users quickly share hyperlinks to files stored in Box with others. Users can adjust the shared link settings to control who can open the link and what they can do with the file (edit, view, and download, or view only). 
People accessing shared link content with view-only or view-and-download access do not need a Box account to view and/or download the content. A Box account is required to edit the file. For more information, view Box Support's page for creating a shared link.
" KB0012792 Box general FAQ What is the difference between managed and external users in Box? "
Visit Box's article on understanding the Differences between Managed and External Users.
" KB0012799 Box general FAQ What is the maximum Box file upload size? "
The maximum file upload size for Rutgers Box accounts is 50GB. Please note that, if you are sharing content with users who don’t have a Rutgers Box account, they have file upload size limitations. Refer to the Box page Understand the Maximum File Size you can Upload to Box.
" KB0012785 Box general FAQ What languages are supported by Box? "
Visit the official languages supported by Box page.
" KB0012778 Box general FAQ What types of Box accounts are available? What features are available? "
Box accounts are available to:
•	Faculty
•	Staff
•	Students
•	Guests
•	Delegated Admins
Each has the same set of features and accessibility, while certain settings can be configured based on user type - e.g., Box group management for delegated admins.
Rutgers Box accounts are considered Box Enterprise-level accounts and boast certain features that make content sharing fast and convenient. For an overview of the Enterprise plan features, visit Box Pricing for Businesses & Individuals.
" KB0012801 Box general FAQ Where can I find information about Box supported Browsers? "
Box supports the most recent major releases of web browsers and desktop/mobile operating systems (OS). For more information, view Box's supported browsers and Operating Systems.
" KB0012826 Box support FAQ Can I change the email address associated with my Box account? "
The primary email address for your Box account is fixed and cannot be changed. However, any Rutgers email addresses associated with your account can still be used to log in. If someone shares a file or folder with any of these associated email addresses, you can access it without issue.
" KB0012827 Box support FAQ Can I make collaborators invisible to each other on Box? "
Owners and Co-Owners of folders on Box have the ability to hide collaborators. When enabled, this feature will hide collaborators with Editor or lower access from each other. When hidden, the word "Someone" will replace their name to maintain anonymity. For more information visit the Box guide on how to hide collaborators. 
" KB0012775 Box support FAQ Can I recover files I deleted from Box? "
Once deleted, you can recover entire folders and specific items from Box. For detailed instructions, visit the Box page Managing Trash.
" KB0012816 Box support FAQ How can I change my Box account settings? "
Box has outlined how to Manage Account Settings on their website. Visit the page Manage Account Settings for more information.
" KB0012823 Box support FAQ How can I create an embed widget to share and access content? "
Visit the Box page on how to create a Box Embed widget to learn how to embed widgets on your web pages.
" KB0012783 Box support FAQ How can I print content from Box notes? "
Box allows users to print content from their Box Notes.
1.	Navigate to the note that will be printed.
2.	Once opened, select ellipsis (shown as (...)) in the upper right corner of the toolbar. 
3.	Select Print from the drop-down menu that appears.

     Error! Filename not specified.
It is important to note that printing with your operating system's file menu will not print the file as intended. All printing should be done from the Box interface. 
" KB0012809 Box support FAQ I am having issues with Box Edit. How can I get help? "
Box has compiled a page with known issues regarding Box Edit. To learn more about these issues and troubleshoot Box Edit, visit the page on Known Issues with Box Edit and Box Tools.
 
" KB0012820 Box support FAQ "I am in an ""Admins Only"" group on Box and I dont show up on the collaborator's list" "
This is a common occurrence for users who are in an Admins Only group. Visit the Box page: Admins Only Groups Do Not Populate In Invite Collaborators Menu.
" KB0012821 Box support FAQ I am unable to create a shared link in Box with a certain access level "
Visit the Box page: Unable to Create Shared Link with Certain Access Level for Content.
" KB0012805 Box support FAQ I can't find a Box folder I was collaborating on and it's not in the trash. What happened to it? "
To address your concerns, Box has compiled a list of questions and answers to help you locate folders in collaboration. To troubleshoot Box collaboration issues, visit the Collaboration Frequently Asked Questions page.
" KB0012819 Box support FAQ I have a few questions about working in Box for iOS. Can you please point me in the right direction? "
Box Support has created a comprehensive FAQ resource for Box on iOS to help you troubleshoot issues and maximize the functionality of your Box for iOS account. 
To view these common questions asked about Box for iOS and more, please visit the Box for iOS Frequently Asked Questions page. 
•	How do I reset my passcode?
•	I can log into Box.com, but not the Box app.
•	What file types can be previewed in Box for iOS? 
•	Can I use Box Sync on my mobile device?
•	Why aren't my files previewing?
" KB0012769 Box support FAQ I need help with my Box account. Who is the right person to contact? "
For assistance with your Box account, you can contact your local department IT. If you are unsure who to contact, please contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0012818 Box support FAQ "I received an ""Insufficient Permission to Upload File"" error on Box and was unable to upload content" "
For information on how to address any issues you have uploading content, visit the Box page Miscellaneous Box Drive Error Notifications.
" KB0012828 Box support FAQ "I received the Box message ""Uploading this will put you over your allocated space error on upload.""" "
Though Business and Enterprise accounts have unlimited storage for their enterprises, Admins can limit the storage allotted to each user within their enterprise. Users must abide by this limit and will receive errors if they take any actions that exceed it.
If you attempt to upload content to a folder whose owner is approaching their storage capacity, you will receive the error "Uploading This Will Put You Over Your Allocated Space."
Troubleshooting Steps
There are two potential solutions to this issue: have the folder owner manually free up space in their account, or have the Box Admin increase the user's storage allocation.
Manually Clearing Up Storage
To manually delete unnecessary files to clear up storage, the user should:
1.	Locate content in the account that does not need to be saved in Box.
2.	Move that content to the Trash.
3.	Navigate to the Trash on the left sidebar.
4.	Permanently delete these files to free up space.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Attempt to upload the files again.
Admin Increasing Storage Allocation
If you are the Box Admin, you will be able to increase the user's storage allocation by:
1.	Find who is the "owner" of the folder (co-owners don't count)
2.	Go to the Admin Console
3.	Go to the Users & Groups tab
4.	Search for this user & click on their name to edit
5.	Under the "edit user account details" section, find the storage quota
6.	Increase the number or check off the box for unlimited.
As the first option requires permanently deleting content, it is recommended to pursue the second option first, if possible. 
For more information, please visit the Box page, Uploading This Will Put You Over Your Allocated Space, to troubleshoot.
" KB0012815 Box support FAQ "I received the Box message ""We're sorry, your account is unable to preview this file type.""" "
If you receive this error message, visit Box's support page for the error message that Your Account is Unable to Preview this File.
" KB0012811 Box support FAQ "I received the error message: ""505 - no such file or directory"" in Box." "
If you receive this error message, visit the Box support page for "FTP 550 No Such File or Directory" to troubleshoot.
" KB0012813 Box support FAQ I tried uploading content to Box and the uploads are failing "
If you have problems uploading content to Box, such as uploads failing, visit the Box Support page for help with Email Uploads to a Folder.
" KB0012782 Box support FAQ I'm having trouble downloading files from Box "
If you have trouble downloading content from Box, visit Box's support page on Common Issues with Downloading Files.
If you seem to have a niche problem, please browse Box's Support Forums for further guidance. 
" KB0012814 Box support FAQ I'm having trouble receiving email notifications from Box "
If you have trouble receiving email notifications from Box, visit the Box support page for Troubleshooting Issues with Email Notifications.
" KB0012812 Box support FAQ I'm having trouble using Box with Outlook Saving Files "
To troubleshoot your Box with Outlook connection, please visit Box's support page for Outlook I’m Having Problems Saving Files.
" KB0012825 Box support FAQ I'm having trouble using Box with Outlook. How can I troubleshoot? "
Box for Outlook is a Microsoft add-in that brings your Box content repository directly into your Outlook interface, enabling you to store email attachments and messages directly into the Box folder of your choice. It also enables you to insert shared links to your Box files anywhere within the body of your email message, so you can share your Box content. If you encounter issues with using Box with Outlook, please read through the following guide:
Getting Box for Outlook
Your Box admin may have already deployed the Box for Outlook add-in. If this is the case, when you open Outlook, you will see the Box icon; the icon's location will depend on the platform you are using. 
If your admin has not automatically deployed the add-in to your account, or you are using a free Box account, you will need to install Box for Outlook yourself. To do so:
1.	Open Outlook.
2.	Select Home > Get Add-ins or Home > All apps.
3.	Use the search function to look for Box for Outlook.
4.	When you find the add-in, select Add.
Using Box with Outlook for the first time
1.	Open Outlook and create or open a message as you normally do.
2.	In the third-party application bar below the message body, click the Box icon. A Box window opens.
3.	At the prompt, click Authorize Access.
4.	At the following prompt, select your Outlook account.
5.	At the following prompt, click Allow. 
o	The Box pane will refresh; this is where you log into Box via Outlook.
6.	Click Log in.
7.	At the next prompt click Grant Access to Box.
Limitations
Ensure that you can use Box for Outlook integration. Below is a list of known limitations for using the add-in:
•	The new Box for Outlook integration works only for Office365 customers.
•	The integration cannot detect when you are dragging and dropping a file from your local device into an email. 
o	To attach a file, you must double-click to select it.
•	The integration does not store the location(s) where you last saved attachments. 
o	This was also a limitation of the prior Box/Outlook integration.
•	There is no preview support for *.eml (even though Outlook emails are saved as *.eml). 
o	To preview an .eml file: 
	Locate the file in Box and click Open.  
	This opens the .eml in your default mail client (such as Outlook, Apple mail client, and so on). 
	On mobile platforms you can use either your browser or email client
•	The new Box for Outlook integration is not supported with on-premises implementations of Exchange.
"Unable to Reach Box" Error Message
If you are using Outlook on a PC, and you're using Internet Explorer, the system could display the following error message: "Sorry, we were unable to reach Box. Check that you have a network connection. If the problem persists, please try later."
In this case, open the Internet Explorer Properties window, click the Security tab, and check Enable Protected Mode.
Keep Getting Logged Off from the Add-in 
If you continue to be logged off from the add-in on the Outlook Windows app, you will need to delete your browser history. To do so:
1.	Go to Internet Options > General tab.
2.	Disable Delete Browser History on Exit.
3.	Click OK. 
" KB0012810 Box support FAQ I'm having trouble using FTP with Box "
To troubleshoot problems you may have with FTP, visit I’m Having Trouble with FTP with Box.
If you are setting up FTP/FTPS for the first time, visit Using Box with FTP or FTPS. 
" KB0012824 Box support FAQ I'm unable to use Box Edit with certain file types "
When Box does not have a program associated with a certain file, you will not be able to open the file. For example, you may see the option to open a .docx file with Microsoft Word with Box Edit, but when attempting to open .xlsx files, Box Edit is not available.
This problem occurs when the file type that is not working, for example, .xlsx, is not associated with a program in the Control Panel. When Box Edit checks which program to use to open the file, it receives no response.
Troubleshooting Steps
Windows devices
1.	On your device, go to Settings > Apps > Default apps
2.	Scroll down and select Choose default apps by file type.
3.	In the list of files, locate the file type that is not working. 
4.	Next to the file type, you'll see the current default program; click it to reveal a list of options. 
5.	Change the default app to Box.
6.	Refresh the Box page and make sure Box Edit is now available.
MacOS devices
1.	Click the Finder icon in the Dock to open a Finder window
2.	Find the problematic file(s), then choose File > Get Info 
3.	In the Info window that comes up, find the arrow next to Open with
4.	Select the pop-up menu, then choose the app; if wanted, select Change all to open all files of this type with this app. 
For further assistance, please visit the support page on Unable to Use Box with Certain File Type.
" KB0012808 Box support FAQ New items are not showing up in Box search results "
Box has published a page detailing how to search for Files, Folders, and Content. If the issues persist, please contact Box Support.
You can also view these pages for more information about troubleshooting Box’s search functionality.
•	Mac Specific Known Issues for Box Drive
•	Windows Specific Issues for Box Drive
" KB0012822 Box support FAQ Pending collaborator has disappeared off of the invitee list in Box "
Visit Box's support page on Pending Collaborator Disappeared from Collaborator List.
" KB0012806 Box support FAQ Why are some Box files missing? I didn't delete them. "
For more information on finding the missing files, visit the Box page Collaboration Frequently Asked Questions.
" KB0012804 Box support FAQ Why can't I see a Box folder I was invited to? "
If you are unable to see a Box folder you were invited to, consider the following possibilities:
•	Incorrect Email Address: The folder owner may have sent the invitation to the wrong email account. Confirm with the owner that the correct email address was used.
•	Removal from Collaborator List: The owner may have removed you from the collaborator list. If this is the case, you will no longer have access to the folder.
•	Resend the Invitation: The folder owner can resend the invitation. Once resent, you will receive an email notification, and the invitation will also appear directly in your Box account.
If that does not solve the issue, contact your respective IT administrator. Be sure to include the name of the folder you expect to see and the email address of either the person who invited you or the folder owner.
For more information, visit Collaboration Frequently Asked Questions.
You can also find answers by visiting the page Unable to Access Content - User Signed into the Wrong Account.
" KB0012982 Calendar FAQ for Rutgers Connect Are calendars included in the requirement to use Rutgers Connect for all University business?
Yes. The policy revisions include calendars as part of email services.
KB0012983 Calendar FAQ for Rutgers Connect How can I publicly share a calendar in Connect? "
Although full details cannot be publicly shared using Office 365, it is possible to make your free/busy times on a calendar publicly available.
In order to do so, you should first share your calendar with any email address outside of Rutgers Connect. This will generate two links for the calendar: one which ends in ".ics" (for use in calendar management programs) and one ending in ".html" (for viewing in browsers). These links can be copied and distributed anywhere you desire.
" KB0012978 Calendar FAQ for Rutgers Connect How can I see who is available when creating a calendar event in Rutgers Connect? "
Office 365 allows you to view the availability of all relevant parties when setting up an event, making scheduling easier.
To use this feature in a web browser, create the event and select the Scheduling Assistant tab at the top of the event window. Next, add any attendees/rooms, and you will see their availability appear next to each other. You can change the event date or time, and participants’ statuses will update accordingly, helping you find a time that works for everyone.
If you use the Outlook desktop client, create the event and then select Invite Attendees. As you add participants, a list of possible meeting times will update to indicate whether everyone is free at that time or if some participants would not be able to attend; in the latter case, these participants will be named along with their conflicting event. Additionally, there will be a calendar with "Good," "Fair," and "Poor" (based on the total availability of all participants) days marked for the meeting.
" KB0012979 Calendar FAQ for Rutgers Connect How can I stop items from being automatically added to my 365 calendar? "
When invited to a meeting or event by another user, you will have the event automatically added to your schedule and marked as tentative. This is done to avoid a third party attempting to schedule an event with you at the same time – if they view your free/busy information, they will see that you may be occupied. However, that default behavior may not be suitable for certain users, and they may desire to turn it off. To turn off this feature:
1.	Open the Outlook desktop client.
2.	Click the File tab at the top of the program window.
3.	Select Options from the list on the left. This will cause a pop-up to appear.
4.	Select Mail from its left pane, then scroll down to Tracking.
5.	Uncheck Automatically process meeting requests and responses to meeting requests and polls.
" KB0015398 Canvas Adding Guests to a Live Course Site as an Instructor "
Academic and non-credit student rosters are enrolled in sections created for a live course site. Instructors should not add guest students to these sections. Instead, instructors should create a new section for guest enrollments. Guest students may include:
•	Senior Auditors
•	General auditor with an active student role
•	User external to the University granted an email account
Courses in Canvas serve as the virtual classroom, where all content resides and where students can learn and interact with instructors and peers.
Sections are groups of students that have been organized for administrative purposes. All sections of a course share the same content. 
How To Create A New Section:
1.	Click Settings in the course.
2.	Click the Sections tab near the top of the Course Settings page.
3.	To add a new section, type the name of the new section [1]. Click the +Section button [2].

     Error! Filename not specified.

4.	A new section should now appear in your course; for this example, the new section was labeled Guests.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Once you have added a new section to your course, you can add users to that section from the People page in your course. Alternatively, if you have already added guests to your course site, you can click the three dots to the right of the person's name on the People page and select "Edit Sections" to change their section.

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	You can add guests to a specific section by clicking the Enter a section name drop-down box or inputting the section's name. To remove a guest from a section, click the X to the right of the section you want the guest removed from.

     Error! Filename not specified.
 
Additional Resources:
•	How do I add a section to a course as an instructor?
•	How do I edit sections for an enrollment in a course?
•	How do I add users to my course as an instructor?
•	Adding Users to Course After the Term has Ended
" KB0015448 Canvas Adding Users to Course After the Term has Ended in Canvas "
Default course settings restrict new users from being added to a course site after the course end date. Teachers will need to update the course end date to accommodate the addition of users after the course has ended.
Approximately 1 year after the end of the term, academic course sites are set to a read-only state. Teachers will no longer be able to add users or edit the course dates. Please contact the help desk for assistance with these older sites. Within a year of the term end, course instructors must edit the course availability dates to make the course active to add users. 
To make this change, navigate to your course’s Settings.
1.	Under Course Details, make sure the three details below are set.
1.	Set Participation type to Course.
2.	Update the End Date to a date in the future. Leaving the field blank means the course will inherit the term date from the past.
3.	Uncheck the box to Restrict students from viewing course after course end date.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Once you have changed the settings, click Update Course Details to save the changes.
3.	You will now be able to add people to the site.
If you are planning to add someone as a teacher or similar role to the site, you can keep the box for Restrict students from viewing course after course end date checked. This option only affects the student and observer roles for the course site.
 
" KB0018548 Canvas Adding videos to Discussions or Text Entry Boxes as a student in Canvas "
Your instructor may ask you to submit a video for an assignment, such as an introduction or a presentation. You can embed these videos using the Rich Content Editor (RCE), also known as a Text Entry Box.
As a student, you have several ways to add a video.
Table of Contents
•	Built-in Recorder
•	Kaltura
•	Additional Resources
Built-in Recorder
Canvas has a built-in recorder that is ideal for short videos (under 4 minutes). Please note, this tool does not allow you to record your screen. You can also upload videos, provided they do not exceed 500 MB.
To use the recorder, please follow the steps below:
1.	Click Reply for a Discussion, or for an assignment, click Submit Assignment and choose the Text Entry tab.
2.	Click on the icon that has a play icon, and choose the option Upload/Record Media.
Error! Filename not specified.
3.	A pop-up should appear. To upload an existing video, click on the Computer tab. To record, click on the Record tab and select permissions for your mic and camera. For more information, refer to the Canvas Student guide on recording media in the Rich Content Editor.
4.	To complete the process, click Finish to review the video. Then, click Save Media to complete the embedding of the media. Once embedded, students will need to click Post for a Discussion or Submit for an Assignment.
Kaltura
Kaltura, like YouTube, is a service that hosts videos for others to view and share. Videos can be uploaded, viewed, and edited through the service. This tool is integrated into Canvas and can be used by students to embed into RCEs/Text Entry Boxes. Below is a brief guide on how to use the tool:
1.	Videos can be recorded directly in the Kaltura Desktop App, or existing videos can be uploaded into My Kaltura Media, available on the left side of one's Canvas page.
2.	Videos uploaded to Kaltura will require processing time. To embed, click Reply for a Discussion or for an assignment, click Submit Assignment and choose the Text Entry tab.
3.	Click Apps (A) in the toolbar. Depending on your screen size, you may need to click More (B) to display the icon. In the Apps menu, click Embed Kaltura Media (C). You may need to click View All (D) to find the Kaltura option. However, a shortcut will be created for future use after completing this step.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	A pop-up will appear. Scroll down (1) or search (2) for Embed Kaltura Media. Click Embed Kaltura Media (3).

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	In the Embed Kaltura Media pop-up, you may search for your video (A), Embed your selection (B), or click the Slider (C) for more embed options.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Once embedded, students will need to click Post for a Discussion or Submit for an Assignment.
 
Additional Resources
•	Kaltura – How do I add Kaltura content to my Canvas course?
" KB0015421 Canvas Alternate File Storage Options in Canvas "
By default, each course has 5GB (5000MB) of storage space in Canvas. Files that count against the storage limit include:
•	Discussions: Attachments added to discussions count against course quotas. Attachments added to discussion replies do not count against course quotas.
•	Media Files: Canvas converts video and audio files up to 500 MB through the Media tool. If a file exceeds the 500 MB limit, it can be hosted through an external source and embedded using the Rich Content Editor.
•	Rich Content Editor: Newly recorded or uploaded media via the Upload/Record Media link does not affect file quotas. However, media files uploaded via any other method (such as the Upload Files link) count toward the course quota.
Increasing your Canvas course’s storage limit requires a consultation to evaluate file storage usage. If you are currently storing Zoom/Webex recordings in Canvas Files, additional storage increase requests will be denied.
Alternative File Storage
Rutgers offers alternative storage options available for faculty, staff, and students. It is advised that media files should be uploaded to the My Kaltura Media tool in Canvas.
My Kaltura Media
Users can create, upload, and share media content. All Users in Canvas can access their My Kaltura Media account in the global navigation.
•	How to add Kaltura content to a course
•	How to move Zoom recordings into My Kaltura Media
Kaltura Course Gallery
Within a course, you can select and post videos from your My Kaltura Media collection for your students to view in the context of the course.
If you have never used the Kaltura Course Gallery, you may need to manage your course navigation links. Review the instructions on how to add videos to the Kaltura Course Gallery.
Box
Instructors can add files from their Box accounts into Canvas Pages and Modules or utilize the embed functionality within their courses. To get started, check your Rutgers Services to ensure you have an active Box account.
If you have never used Box in Canvas, you may need to manage your course navigation links.
To embed a file from Box into a Rich Content Editor, please do the following:
1.	 While in the Rich Content Editor, click the More Apps icon, (resembles a small plug). 
2.	 Select View All to open your embedding options.
3.	 From the list, select Box and sign in with your SSO/Rutgers Box credentials.
4.	 Once your Box account folders/files are open, you can select the file(s) to be embedded and then click Choose to complete the process.
Office 365 (OneDrive)
Instructors can use OneDrive from their Rutgers Connect account. Files may be uploaded to the Office 365 app in Canvas, and then a hyperlink to that document can be created anywhere you can use the Rich Content Editor in Canvas. Several features in Canvas support the Rich Content Editor, including Announcements, Assignments, Discussions, Pages, Quizzes, and Syllabus. 
•	Open Office 365 from your Course Navigation to start uploading your files to OneDrive. 
•	Once your files are uploaded to your OneDrive, you can link individual OneDrive files to a Page/Assignment or link a OneDrive file/folder to the Course Modules. 
Please review more information on Microsoft OneDrive and Canvas Integration. 
Google Drive (ScarletApps)
Google Drive is available for staff and faculty through ScarletApps (Google). Similar to Box, Google Drive can add files into Canvas Pages and Modules or utilize the embed functionality within your courses. Files can be uploaded to Google Drive and linked using the Rich Content Editor in Canvas or as an external tool.
•	Open your ScarletApps account to start uploading files to Google Drive. 
•	Once your files are uploaded to your Google Drive, you can link individual Google files to a Page/Assignment, link Google folders to the Course Modules, or embed Google documents from Google Drive. 
Users who want to use their Google account may need to add an additional email address to their Canvas account. Please read the Google LTI – User Account Best Practices.
Additional Resources
•	Comparing Box, OneDrive, and Google Drive
•	Activate Rutgers Services (Scarlet Apps and Box)
•	Box Documentation
•	Office 365 (OneDrive) Documentation
•	Google Drive (ScarletApps) Documentation
" KB0015440 Canvas Assigning Primary Instructor in BANNER "
These instructions are for the Rutgers Health school registrars to assign a primary instructor for an active course listed in Banner. After assigning the instructor, Canvas will create the live course site, add the instructor, and sync the roster according to the established course and enrollment provisioning schedule.
Please contact banner@oit.rutgers.edu with any inquiries.
Updating BANNER Instructor Assignments
1.	Select the Meeting Times and Instructors tab in SSASECT.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	In the Instructor Block, enter the instructor's A Number in the ID field.
3.	Check the box for Primary Instructor.
4.	Click Save.

Error! Filename not specified.
 
Adding an instructor to the system
If you cannot assign the instructor, you may need to add them to the system first.
1.	Select the Meeting Times and Instructors tab in SSASECT.
2.	In the Schedule Block, click on the ellipse in the Meeting Time field.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Double-click on the MT Meeting Time Code.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	The MT Code and the POT start and end dates will be preloaded in the schedule block.
5.	Select the Meeting Location and Credits sub-tab.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Enter zero (0) in the Hours per Week field, then click Save. You may get a warning that the change could cause schedule conflicts for registered students. Click OK to continue.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	In the Instructor Block, enter the instructor's A Number in the ID field.
8.	Check the box for Primary Instructor.
9.	Click Save.

Error! Filename not specified.
 
 
" KB0015434 Canvas Canvas Course Visibility Settings Options "
The Settings link in your course navigation allows instructors to modify the course details that affect visibility and availability for a Canvas course site. Depending on your role in a course and settings controlled by your department or school, some settings may not be available to you. This article assumes you have a teacher (full-editing) role and are teaching a for-credit course.
Course State
The course must be published for the visibility and availability settings to take effect.
Course Dates
•	Start Date: Canvas admins set the course start date to be the first day of the term; instructors may change the start date.
o	Recommendation: Set the date to be the first day of the semester and change the date to a past date/time if you would like to send inbox conversations or announcement notifications before the start of the semester.
•	End Date: Canvas admins set the course end date to be the day before the next semester begins; instructors may change the end date. Once the date passes, students will no longer receive notifications.
o	Recommendation: Set the end date to be the last day you would like the course to be active.
•	Restrict students from viewing this course after the end date: Instructors can choose to limit student access to a course site before the course start date or after the course end date. For some courses, this setting may be established by your school or program administrator, and you will not be able to change it. 
o	Recommendation: Instructor or school preference
•	Restrict students from viewing this course before the start date:
o	Recommendation: Instructor or school preference. 
Visibility
By default, only users enrolled in a Canvas course site have access to the site. Course instructors may change this setting to allow anyone with the course URL or only users logged into Rutgers Canvas to access the course.
•	Recommendation: Course
•	Customize: Instructors have the option to make available the course syllabus to Rutgers Canvas users or to anyone with the syllabus URL. Instructors may opt to change the course visibility setting at various times. During registration and add/drop period, it may be beneficial to allow Rutgers Canvas users to access the course syllabus.
o	Recommendation: Course or Institution.
•	Include this course in the public course index: Instructors may opt to list their Canvas course site in the Public Course Index. Visibility settings control access to the course content. 
o	Recommendation: Unchecked
Reminder: Instructors and academic programs may benefit by including a self-enrollable course in the Public Course Index. These courses may serve as valuable resources for students in academic programs, licensing reviews, or program onboarding. Please review the Canvas Guides concerning course settings to ensure the course is visible and accessible. Once a course is listed in the Public Course Index and is self-enrollable, any Rutgers Canvas user may join your course.
Additional Settings
In Course Settings, reviewing settings at the bottom of the page provides additional accessibility options.
•	Let students self-enroll by sharing a secret URL with them (in conjunction with adding a “Join this Course” link to the course home page). This enables instructors to enable self-enrollment, allowing students to enroll themselves in your Canvas course site. This does not affect registration in Rutgers student information systems such as Banner or REGIS.
o	Recommendation: Unchecked
Canvas Guides
•	What are the different states of a Canvas course?
•	How do I publish a course?
•	How do I change the start and end dates for a course?
•	How do I customize visibility options for course content (including the syllabus)
•	How do I restrict student access to a course before or after the course dates?
•	What is the difference between assignment due dates and availability dates?
•	How do I view all my Canvas courses?
" KB0015355 Canvas Canvas Mobile Apps "
You can access Canvas from any browser on your mobile device. However, for the best user experience, it is recommended that you view Canvas through the mobile app. Please note that some features and tools may not function as expected in the mobile apps compared to viewing Canvas in a fully supported desktop browser.
Canvas pages within a mobile browser are only supported when an action in the app links directly to the browser, such as when a student takes a specific type of Canvas quiz. Support is not extended to Canvas items that cannot currently be used in the app, such as Conferences, Collaborations, Kaltura embedded content, or VoiceThread content. Canvas offers limited support for native mobile browsers on tablet devices. For details, please reference the limited-support mobile browser guidelines. Content items requiring Flash to run will not work unless your browser supports Flash. Safari, Chrome, and most free browsers do not support Flash. However, if you want to use Flash, you may want to try 360, Photon, Skyfire, iSwifter, or Puffin browsers, among other iOS Flash-supported browsers.
There are several mobile apps for Canvas. The descriptions for each app are shown below.
The Canvas App
The Canvas app allows students to access their courses and groups using a mobile device. Students may submit assignments, participate in discussions, view grades, and access course materials. The app also provides access to course calendars, To-Do items, notifications, and Conversation messages.
The Canvas App is available for both Android and iOS devices.
•	Learn more about the Canvas app
•	Canvas iOS Guide
•	Canvas Android Guide
Canvas Teacher
Canvas Teacher allows teachers to facilitate their courses on the go, both inside and outside the classroom. This app provides quick access to grading, communicating, and updating—three of the most frequent course facilitation tasks for teachers through Announcements, Assignments, Discussions, and Quizzes.
Canvas Teacher is available for both Android and iOS devices.
•	Learn more about the Canvas Teacher app
•	Canvas Teacher iOS Guide
•	Canvas Teacher Android Guide
 
" KB0015595 Canvas Canvas Sub-Account Admin Quick Guide "
There are several different account roles in Canvas. For more details about permissions, please refer to the Account Admin Roles and Permissions Guide.
Changes made at the account level will affect all users and courses under the sub-account. These include:
•	External Apps
•	Grade Schemes
•	Outcomes
•	Question Banks
•	Rubrics
•	Settings
•	Themes
Accessing the Admin Area
After you have been assigned an account-level role, you will see an icon labeled Admin in the global navigation. Clicking on this will display the sub-accounts to which you have access.
Error! Filename not specified.
Some admin roles can view and manage sub-accounts in Canvas. For additional information, see Viewing and Managing a Sub-Account.
Admin Navigation Menu in the Sub-Account
Once you are in the sub-account, you will see the Admin Navigation menu.
Error! Filename not specified.
•	Courses: Searchable list of all courses within the account.
•	People: Searchable list of all Canvas users within the account. 
•	Outcomes: Manage learning outcomes that can be used by any faculty.
•	Rubrics: Manage learning rubrics that can be used by any faculty.
•	Grading: Manage learning grading schemes that can be used by any faculty.
•	Sub-Accounts: View directories in the account to narrow search results.
•	Analytics Hub: View data on usage & adoption, student success, and course effectiveness.
•	Admin Tools: Limited system logs for user login, grade, and course activity.
•	Settings: Creating announcements, various reporting, and external integrations.
These menu options will vary depending on the account role assigned to your account.
Canvas Guides by Instructure:
Administrator Guides and Communities by Instructure:
•	Canvas Admin Guide
•	Canvas Basics Guide
•	Canvas Video Guide
Additional guides for common actions taken by Admins:
•	How do I view reports for an account?
•	How do I view the enrollments for a user in an account?
•	How do I send a message to a user in an account?
•	How do I create a global announcement in an account?
•	How do I restrict student access before or after a course date at the account level?
•	How do I use the Canvas App Center in an account?
" KB0015412 Canvas Course Requests & Enrollments "
This page describes the different types of course sites in Canvas and how users are enrolled in them.
Live Course Sites
Live Course Sites are the official work sites for for-credit courses and are linked to the Rutgers student information systems to automatically populate their roster. Find more information on the Live Course Sites guide.
•	Course Sites: Courses properly coded for Canvas in the REGIS and BANNER scheduling systems are automatically created for the assigned instructor.
•	Enrollments: Rosters for Live Course Sites are synced daily with the student information systems.
•	Missing Roster: If a Live Course site is missing students, it may not be linked to the section correctly. If this occurs, please contact the Canvas Help Desk with your site URL and the section's 5-digit Reg Index/CRN number.
Sandbox Course Sites
Sandbox Course Sites (often referred to as a ‘template’) are not connected to a roster. These sites can be used for practice, testing, or archiving content.
•	Course Sites: Sandbox Course Sites in Canvas are not associated with for-credit course sections or academic terms. 
o	Note: Sandbox Course Sites need to be requested.
•	Enrollments: There are no attached rosters for Sandbox Course Sites. All participants need to be added manually by sub-account admins, teachers, or TA’s in the site.
Non-Credit Course Sites
The Application for Noncredit Online Registration (ANCOR) is the registration system used at Rutgers to ensure compliance with the university’s policies for non-credit student records and business practices.
The ANCOR integration in Canvas enables programs to create Canvas course sites independently and have enrollments synced in real-time. 
•	Course Sites: If a non-credit program is not using ANCOR, please email help@canvas.rutgers.edu for more information. 
•	Enrollments: If your program is not using ANCOR, the department offering the program will need to manage the rosters. If your program is using ANCOR and you have a question, please contact the ANCOR Help Desk.
" KB0015353 Canvas Course Roles and Permissions "
This page contains information for Course Roles and Permissions. Information about Account Admin Roles and Permissions can be found in a separate guide.
Table of Contents
•	Course access in Canvas
•	Course roles 
o	Teacher
o	Student
o	Course Support
o	Course Coordinator
o	TA (Teaching Assistant)
o	Designer
o	Facilitator
o	Peer Reviewer
o	Observer
o	Undergraduate Course Assistant (UCA)
o	Accessibility Assistant (AAs)
o	ASL/CART Interpreter
•	Additional Resources
Course access in Canvas
There are two types of users in Canvas: account-level users and course-level users. Course roles are roles that allow a user specific permissions within a specific course. The roles listed below have been created for all of Rutgers Canvas courses.
Typically, users with these roles are limited to viewing only the content within their Canvas courses. Your individual school or Canvas sub-account administrator may have edited the roles listed below or created a specialized role that may be available in courses for your school.  For information about the permissions and limitations of these roles, please contact your department's support.
Course roles
Teacher
•	Primary use: For instructors who need full access to the Canvas features for instruction.
•	Permissions: Teachers have all course-level permissions, including the ability to add, edit, and delete all content in a course, edit course settings, and manually add individuals with active Canvas user accounts.
•	Limitations: None.
Student
•	Primary use: Students enrolled in a course site.
•	Permissions: The student role grants permissions to view course content and engage in course activities, including submitting assignments, participating in discussions, and sending messages to users within a course.
•	Limitations: Students cannot view or modify course settings.
Course Support
•	Primary use: For providing the same level of access as Teacher, but excluding the user from the course evaluation.
•	Permissions: Course Support has all course-level permissions, including the ability to add, edit, and delete all content in a course, edit course settings, and manually add individuals with active Canvas user accounts.
•	Limitations: None.
Course Coordinator
•	Primary use: This person is responsible for coordinating the administration of all sections of a multi-sectioned course.
•	Permissions: Same level of permissions as the teachers.
•	Limitations: Cannot add or remove Teachers to the course.
TA (Teaching Assistant)
•	Primary use: For assistant instructors and teaching assistants.
•	Permissions: TAs have permissions similar to the Teacher role. They have all course-level permissions, including the ability to add, edit, and delete all content in a course, edit course settings, and manually add individuals with active Canvas user accounts.
•	Limitations: TAs cannot add other Teachers or TAs to the course, nor publish the course.
Designer
•	Primary use: For instructional designers/technologists (and staff with similar responsibilities) who write and manage course content, but do not actually teach courses or grade student work.
•	Permissions: Create course content, discussions, announcements, assignments, quizzes, and other content features.
•	Limitations: Designers cannot view or modify grades. Designers cannot add Teachers or TAs to the course, but can add students.
Facilitator
•	Primary use: Section Instructor. This is a non-editing role intended for programs that provide complete course content for an instructor.
•	Permissions: Facilitators can view submitted student work and enter grades and comments. They can also view files, announcements, assignments, quizzes, and export course content.
•	Limitations: Facilitators cannot manage course content, import course content, or view question banks. Facilitators cannot add Teachers or TAs to the course, but can add students.
Peer Reviewer
•	Primary use: For faculty or staff requesting to observe a course as part of a peer review of teaching.
•	Permissions: Peer Reviewers have access to view course content, instructor feedback, and student grades.
•	Limitations: Peer Reviewers cannot edit any content and are not permitted to participate in course activities. Peer Reviewers are unable to make changes to the Gradebook or SpeedGrader. Additionally, Peer Reviewers cannot add other users to the course.
Observer
•	Primary use: For users who have no official role in the course, but have been given permission to view course content and discussion forums.
•	Permissions: Observers have access to view course content. This role can be linked to a student enrolled in a course in order to monitor their progress.
•	Limitations: Observers have no permissions to edit or participate in course activities or send messages to users.
Undergraduate Course Assistant (UCA)
•	Primary use: For undergraduate assistants who are allowed to make changes to course content but are not allowed to view course grades.
•	Permissions: UCAs can create course content, discussions, announcements, assignments, quizzes, calendar events, and other content features. UCAs can message all course users.
•	Limitations: UCAs are unable to perform the following tasks: add people to the course site, publish the course, or access the Gradebook or SpeedGrader. The UCA role doesn't allow for the grading of assignments within Canvas.
Accessibility Assistant (AAs)
•	Primary use: For Rutgers Access and Disability Resources (RADR) staff who monitor course content in courses with enrolled students with documented needs. 
•	Permissions: AAs can view and edit all course content, discussions, announcements, assignments, quizzes, calendar events, and other content features. AAs can message individual course users. 
•	Limitations: AAs are unable to perform the following tasks: add people to the course site, publish the course, or access the Gradebook or SpeedGrader. The AA role doesn't allow for the grading of assignments within Canvas.
ASL/CART Interpreter
•	Primary use: The ASL/CART Interpreter role in Canvas is used to identify individuals providing reasonable accommodations and services for students with disabilities. These users will provide services including American Sign Language (ASL) and Communication Access Real-time Transcription (CART).
•	Permissions and Limitations: ASL/CART Interpreter role has specific permissions and limitations covered in ASL/CART Interpreter Role in Canvas.
Additional Resources
•	Descriptions for each permission
•	How do I add users to my course as an instructor? 
•	Adding Guests to a Live Course Site as an Instructor
•	Unable to add a user to Course Site
•	Observers' Visibility and Participation
•	Canvas Course Role Permissions Comparison Chart
" KB0015592 Canvas Differences between Courses and Sections in Canvas "
Courses
Courses are the virtual classroom where all course content resides and is the place where students can learn and interact with the instructor and one another. Rutgers courses are organized under sub-accounts that align with the offering unit. A single REGIS- or Banner-coded section is associated with a single Canvas course site. 
Courses contain:  
•	Section(s)
•	Content
•	Grades
•	Submissions
Sections
Sections are groups of students that have been organized for administrative purposes. When users are enrolled in a course, they are actually enrolled in one of the sections of that course. All sections of a course share the same content.
Sections contain:
•	Enrollments
Note:
•	It is possible to place more than one section in a course, but not possible to put sections within sections.
•	If multiple sections are taught by the same instructor, the Rutgers Cross-List Courses tool allows that instructor to combine their sections into a single course site and share the same content.
•	Different instructors teaching the same course should have separate course sites for their own sections.
Error! Filename not specified.
Managing Student Rosters
Creating New Sections
Instructors can add sections to their course to separate students. However, the roster for manually created sections will not sync with Rutgers' student information systems, such as REGIS or Banner. A use case for a manually created section would be to enroll auditors in a course. See Adding Guests to a Live Course Site as an Instructor. 

Students can be further organized by assigning specific tags as necessary.
Moving a Section to Another Course
 If you have multiple courses and would like to move the roster from one course site to another, this can be done with the Rutgers Cross-List Courses tool. Sections should be cross-listed before students submit to assignments. Student submissions are linked to the discussion, assignment, or quiz in a course site and remain in place even when the section is moved to another course site.
" KB0015337 Canvas How do I add users to my Canvas course as an instructor? "
Important information and notes before adding people
•	Rutgers–Newark and Rutgers Business School 
o	Rutgers–Newark does not allow faculty to add non-registered students to their courses to protect the integrity of the roster. However, you may have situations such as a student finishing an incomplete and needing to be in an active course, or a student who is registered for an independent study but needs access to your course. The RU-N IT Service Center can add these students to your course.
o	Please submit student and full course information using the Canvas Special Request Form. Approval from the dean or program coordinator is required.
•	Undergraduate and graduate enrollments are updated daily. If you are scheduled to teach a class, please have your live course site set up before the start of the semester. Registered users will be added automatically if the course is linked to a Rutgers course roster. View more information about Course and Enrollment Provisioning.
•	Canvas generates a course invitation when an enrollment is manually added to the course. The user must accept the course invitation to participate in the course. Until the user accepts the course invitation, the user’s status will display as pending and will not receive course notifications or messages.
•	To add a participant to a Canvas course, the participant must have an active Canvas account.  You will be notified during the process if Canvas cannot locate an account for the participant.
•	If you are adding a member of the Rutgers community (faculty, staff, or student), you must know their Rutgers NetID; don’t try to add participants by email address. You can find the NetID for registered students on your roster in REGIS, but you may need to request the information from other users.
Access the People page
1.	In your Canvas course, click the People link in Course Navigation.
2.	Click +People in the upper right of the People page.
Entering the user's information
For Rutgers faculty, staff, and students, the Canvas Login ID will be their NetID. For participants without a NetID, their email address will also serve as their Login ID. While the email address option may work, most faculty, staff, and students have multiple email addresses, and Canvas will recognize only the default email address in the user's account.
Error! Filename not specified.
1.	Under the Add user(s) by heading, select Login ID.
2.	Enter the user's Net ID or email address as appropriate in the search box. Entries can be either separated by a comma or by a line break, as shown in the search box.
Note: If you have a list of users in a spreadsheet, multiple user Login IDs can be copied and pasted from a column.
3.	Select the desired Role for the user.  The most common are Teacher, TA, or Student.  See Course Roles and Permissions for more information about the available roles.
Note: Some departments may have custom roles available only to that department and are not listed in this article.
4.	Select the desired Section to add the user to if applicable.
5.	In courses with multiple sections, participation can be limited to a specific section by checking the "Can interact with users in their section only" box.
6.	Click Next.
Verify users
If a user account is found, verify that the correct user is listed, then click Add Users to complete the process.  The user will be sent an invitation with a link to the course.
Error! Filename not specified.
If a user account(s) was not found, you will receive a warning notification as shown below:
Error! Filename not specified.
When you are unable to add a user to a course site, email the Canvas Help Desk at help@canvas.rutgers.edu with the user’s first and last name, along with the user’s Rutgers email address and NetID. If the user is not affiliated with Rutgers, then they will need a Canvas guest account.
View pending enrollment
Error! Filename not specified.
Until the user accepts the course invitation, the user’s status will display as pending next to their name. You may resend the course invitation to the student. 
Please note:
•	It may take up to 24 hours for users to receive their invitations, depending on their notification preferences. Canvas will not consider the user enrolled and won’t recognize the user anywhere in Canvas (including Conversations)—until the invitation has been accepted. If necessary, you can resend the course invitation to the student. 
•	If a user was added with the wrong role in the course, you can edit a user’s role in a course.
•	If a user was added to the wrong section in the course, you can edit a user’s section in a course.
If you need any assistance with this process or have any questions, please contact the Canvas Help Desk.
" KB0015596 Canvas How to Access Canvas "
Active faculty, staff and students log in to Canvas using their Rutgers NetID. Non-credit students and guests will be provided an email login. Please contact your program if you do not receive your login information.
Instructions on how to log in with the Rutgers NetID or email address are shown below:
NetID Login
1.	Navigate to the Rutgers Canvas Home Page.
2.	Click the NetID Login located at the top of the page.
3.	Enter your NetID and Password, and click 'Login'.
4.	When you log in, you will see your Canvas Dashboard.
Email Login
Part 1: Set up your password
If you already know your password, skip to Part 2
1.	Navigate to the Rutgers Canvas Home Page.
2.	Click Email Login located at the top of the page.
3.	Click Forgot Password?
4.	Type your email address as the Login ID and click the Request Password button.
5.	Return to your email account and sign in. Open the email titled Forgot Password: Canvas. The sender is from notifications@instructure.com.
6.	In your email, follow the directions to Click here to set a new password.
7.	After you have changed your password, you will be brought back to the Canvas Login Page.
Part 2: Log into Canvas
1.	Navigate to the Rutgers Canvas Home Page.
2.	Click Email Login at the top of the page.
3.	Enter your Email for the Login ID and the password you established in Part 1.
4.	When you log in, you will see your Canvas Dashboard.
Contacting The Canvas Help Desk
Dedicated faculty and student support is available for all campuses. If you need assistance with your Canvas account, please visit our contact page.
" KB0018777 Canvas How to access Simple Syllabus as a student in Canvas "
Instructors from the School of Nursing may choose to share their syllabus with students using the external tool Simple Syllabus in their Canvas course. For this tool to work correctly, the student must have their Canvas Default Email address in the format of netid@rutgers.edu. 
Table of Contents
•	Add your netid@rutgers.edu email address to Canvas
•	Set your default email address
•	Accessing Simple Syllabus in Canvas
•	Additional Resources
Add your netid@rutgers.edu email address to Canvas
1.	In Global Navigation, click the Account link (1), then click the Settings link (2).

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	In the Email Addresses section, click + Email Address.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Enter your email address as netid@rutgers.edu, e.g., hr1766@rutgers.edu. When you are finished, click Register Email.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Open the email account you just added and locate the confirmation email from Canvas. Click the link sent to your email to complete the registration of the additional email address. If you have a Rutgers Connect email, please check your inbox for the confirmation email. You may have to check your junk mail folder. If you need to resend the confirmation, click Re-Send Confirmation.

     Error! Filename not specified.
Set your default email address
1.	In the Ways to Contact sidebar, under Email Addresses, you can tell which email address is your default by the star icon next to the email address.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	To set your netid@rutgers.edu email address as the default email address in Canvas, hover over the email address, and a faint star icon will appear. Click the star icon.

     Error! Filename not specified.
•	Note: If the default email address is set to your netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu or netid@sn.rutgers.edu, the tool will not function properly.
Accessing Simple Syllabus in Canvas
1.	Log in to Rutgers Canvas and navigate to your Canvas course.
2.	Click on Simple Syllabus in the course navigation menu.

Error! Filename not specified.
Additional Resources
•	Due to how Safari handles third-party cookies, for Simple Syllabus to function correctly on Safari, the security setting "Prevent Cross-Site Tracking" must be disabled. 
o	Safari Web Browser and External Tools in Canvas
•	To view all Rutgers email addresses you have access to, go to the Manage Email Addresses portal.
" KB0018427 Canvas How to Allow Select Students Extended Access in Canvas "
When a student needs to complete work in a Canvas site after a semester has finished, they may be unable to access the site if the End Date has passed. While changing the overall course End Date is possible, instructors may not wish for the course to be reopened for all enrolled students. To limit course access, a new section can be created to allow a selection of students to have extended access. 
Note: If an instructor finds that they cannot create a new section or change the course End Date, then the course has entered an inactive state. To reactivate it, contact the Rutgers Canvas Help Desk.
Create a Section
1.	Navigate to the Settings on the left side of the course, and click the Sections tab at the top of the page.
2.	Under Add a New Section, add the name for this extended access section, and click the +Section button to create a new section.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Once the section has been created, click on the name of the section.
 
     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click the Edit Section button on the right of the page. This will show fields where the section name and its Start Date and End Date can be edited.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Add the desired availability window for the student(s). It is recommended to check off Students can only participate in the course between these dates in order to ensure the student(s) only access the course site within the specified timeframe.

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Click Update Section.
Add Student to Extended Access Section
The student now needs to be added to the new section. To do so, the course needs to be briefly active again, and the student’s section enrollment edited. 
1.	In Settings, click on the Course Details tab at the top of the page.
2.	Scroll down to where it says End Date and change the date to one in the future. You may need to change the Participation field from Term to Course in order to change the End Date.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click Update Course Details near the bottom of the screen.
4.	Go to People on the left side of the course.
5.	Find the student who needs to be added to the new section and click on the three dots to the far right of their name. Select Edit Sections.

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	In the pop-up, start typing the name of the section and select it, or click on the drop-down menu to show all available sections. Then click the Update button once both sections appear selected.

     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	To ensure that the course is not reopened for the rest of the class, go to Settings to change the End Date back to its original one, and click Update Course Details to save the changes.
More Resources
•	Adding Users to Course After the Term has Ended in Canvas
•	Canvas Course Visibility Settings Options
•	Adding Guests to a Live Course Site as an Instructor
" KB0015408 Canvas How to provide accommodations for students in Canvas Quizzes "
To provide accommodations for quizzes on Canvas, please review the guides below depending on whether they are Classic or New Quizzes.
Resources:
•	Once I publish a quiz, how do I use the Moderate Quiz page?
•	Once I publish a timed quiz, how can I give my students extra time?
•	Once I publish a quiz, how can I give my students extra attempts?
•	How do I use the Moderation page in New Quizzes?
•	How do I moderate a student’s assessment attempt in New Quizzes?
•	How do I add assessment accommodations for a student in New Quizzes?
Depending on your Canvas Quiz settings, instructors may need to use both the Moderate This Quiz option to increase the time a student has to complete the quiz once launched and the Edit this Quiz option to extend the window available to complete the quiz.
•	If the Canvas Quiz settings are set so that the availability window (when a student is allowed to take the quiz) is the same as the quiz time limit, then instructors should edit the quiz settings, in particular, the Assign To: option, to provide their students with a longer availability window to take your quiz. The Assign To: option does not increase the length of time a student has to complete the quiz; it only changes the date and time (window) when the quiz becomes available for students to take before it automatically closes.
•	To increase the time limit for a student, use the Moderate This Quiz option found on the quiz details page. Find the student whom you want to provide additional time for and choose the pencil icon to the right to open the student extension window. Then add the additional minutes to Extra time on every attempt. 
Quiz Feature and Impact Examples
The examples below assume that the student accommodation requires time-and-a-half compensation for quizzes and exams.
Original Quiz Setting	Moderate this Quiz	Available From/To:	Student Experience
Available From:
5 pm Oct. 1
Available To:
6 pm Oct. 4
Time Limit:
80 Minutes	+40 minutes	No Change	Available From:
5 pm Oct. 1
Available To:
6 pm Oct. 4
Time Limit:
120 Minutes Extended Time
Available From:
9:40 pm Oct. 1
Available To:
11:00 pm Oct. 1
Time Limit:
80 Minutes	+40 minutes	Available From:
9:00 pm Oct. 1
Available To:
11:00 pm Oct. 1	Available From:
9:00 pm Oct. 1
Available To:
11:00 pm Oct. 1
Time Limit:
120 Minutes Extended Time
Available From:
9:40 pm Oct. 1
Available To:
11:00 pm Oct. 1
Time Limit:
80 Minutes	+40 minutes	No Change	Available From:
9:40 pm Oct. 1
Available To:
11:00 pm Oct. 1
Time Limit:
80 Minutes No Extended Time
Although the quiz was moderated to allow for extended time, the Available From/To settings were not updated, so the quiz closed after 80 minutes, and the student did not receive their additional time.			
 
" KB0015392 Canvas How To Set Different Due Dates in Canvas for Different Students "
This guide will demonstrate the steps to set different due dates for Canvas assignments or quizzes for individual or groups of students. For instructors who need to provide quiz/exam accommodations for students, you may need to moderate assessments and adjust due dates and times.
Multiple due dates can be added by either editing the assignment or using the Assign To option on the assignment detail page.
Editing Assignment
1.	Log in to Canvas, navigate to your course, and access your quiz or assignment.
2.	From Modules or Assignments, click the three dots to the right of the assignment name.  If you are viewing the assignment, click Edit in the upper right.
3.	In the Assign section of the assignment or quiz setting, click +Assign To to differentiate the assignment.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	In the new Assign to field, you may type a student’s name or a course section name.  As you type, a list will appear, and the name will autocomplete.  Click on the name(s) to assign the new due date.
5.	Enter due dates and availability dates to apply to this subset of students in your course.
6.	The original assignment due date for Everyone will change to Everyone Else.


     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Click Save in the lower right.
8.	The assignment information will display multiple due dates for the assignment or quiz.
Please note: Only students who have been assigned the assignment will be gradable in the Gradebook.
Assign To Option
1.	Log in to Canvas, navigate to your course, and access your quiz or assignment.
2.	From the assignment or quiz details, choose Assign To.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	From the sidebar menu, select + Add.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	In the new Assign to field, you may type a student’s name or a course section name.  As you type, a list will appear, and the name will autocomplete.  Click on the name(s) to assign the new due date.
5.	Enter due dates and availability dates to apply to this subset of your course.
6.	The original assignment due date for Everyone will change to Everyone Else.

     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Click Save in the lower right.
8.	The assignment information will display multiple due dates for the assignment or quiz.
Please note: Only students who have been assigned the assignment will be gradable in the Gradebook. 
Additional Resources:
Canvas Guides for Assignments:
•	How do I assign an assignment to everyone, individual students, differentiated tags, or sections?
•	How do I assign an assignment to a course group?
•	How do I view differentiated assignments with different due dates in a course?
Canvas Guides for Discussions:
•	How do I create a graded discussion?
•	How do I assign a graded discussion to a course group?
Canvas Guides for Classic Quizzes:
•	How do I make a quiz available before or after the due date?
•	How do I assign a quiz to everyone, individual students, differentiation tags, or sections?
Canvas Guides for New Quizzes:
•	How do I edit the assignment details of a New Quizzes assessment?
" KB0015549 Canvas Log into Canvas with Email "
This login method enables Canvas users to log in using the email address associated with their Canvas account. Email login is not an option for Rutgers NetID users. 
If you already know your password, skip to Part 2
Part 1 - Set up your password
1.	Go to the Canvas Login Page and click on the Email Login button.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Navigate to the Canvas email login page, and click on Forgot password?

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Type your email address used to register for the class and click the Request Password button.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Check your email for a Subject titled: Forgot Password: Canvas (the sender is notifications@instructure.com). Click on the link inside the email to set up the new password.

     Error! Filename not specified.
Part 2 - Log into Canvas
1.	Go to the Canvas Login Page and click on the Email Login button. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Enter your email for the LoginID and the password you set up.
3.	When you log in, you will see your Canvas Dashboard.
Additional Materials
On the dashboard, you will only see the courses you have access to. For more information about the Dashboard layout, check out the following Canvas Guides:
•	How do I use the Dashboard navigation as an Instructor?
•	How do I use the Dashboard navigation as a Student?
" KB0015539 Canvas Migration – Sakai to Canvas Instructions "
This page will explain how to export Sakai Course Content and import into Canvas.
Depending on the complexity of your course content structure, you may have to do some content reorganization. This is a good opportunity to re-evaluate your course structure.
Export Sakai Content
Although Canvas allows you to import Sakai content, you must first export using Common Cartridge packages. You need to be aware that you can ONLY import content from Assignments, Forums, Test & Quizzes, and Resources, using the Lessons tool.
1.	Navigate to ANY “Lessons” page in your Sakai site. If your site does not have the “Lessons” tool, start by adding it to your site (go to Site Info > Manage Tools and check Lessons then click Continue).
2.	Go to the “Lessons” tool in your Sakai site (note that you may have renamed the “Lessons” tool to something else, that won’t matter as long as you can find it).
3.	Click More Tools.
4.	Choose Export CC.
5.	Select the Use newest version (1.3) Better for Canvas option.
6.	Optionally choose to add your question pools (this will include all the questions that you have added to “Pools” from all your courses).
7.	Wait. The process may take some time, especially for large courses.
8.	Look in your Downloads folder on your own computer, you should see a file named something like “Sakai-export.zip”.
View the PDF Version with Images
Import Sakai Course to Canvas
1.	In Canvas, go to your course and click Settings.
2.	Click Import Content into this course (in the right-hand column of options).
3.	For Content Type, choose Common Cartridge 1.x Package.
4.	Choose the file that you exported from the Sakai lessons tool, it should have a name similar to “Sakai-export.zip”.
5.	Click either All Content or Select specific content depending on whether you want to import everything, or pick and choose.
6.	You may click the option to Adjust Events and due dates if you like. This attempts to automatically shift dates, but it may not work satisfactorily.
7.	Click Import.
8.	Wait. This may take a long time depending on the size of your course and how many files your course has stored.
9.	Under “Current Jobs” canvas will either indicate “Completed” or “Waiting for Select” (depending on whether you chose to import all content, or select specific content).
o	If you see “Waiting for Select” click Select Content, then place check marks next to the items you want to import.
o	If you see “Completed” Canvas may also show an “Issues” link. You can click Issues to see what problems Canvas ran into.
10.	Once Canvas indicates the “Common Cartridge” job is Completed you can now go to the individual areas of Canvas to make final adjustments and changes.
11.	Be sure to review the list of potential problems and things to check, below. You may want to continue with the instructions in the next section to make sure you include all your Resources.
12.	Finally be sure to edit assignment, discussions, and test/quiz settings and update questions associated with test/quizzes.
View the PDF Version with Images
Tips and Troubleshooting
•	If you renamed resources in Sakai, they will revert to the original names. You need to rename the files again in Canvas.
•	If you copy the entire site, Sakai may fail to include some Resources when exporting. You may need to upload individual files, or follow the instructions for copying Sakai Resources to Canvas.
•	Canvas does not allow you to re-order files, they will always be in alphabetical order. You need to use either the Pages or Modules tool to control the display order.
•	Canvas does not allow you to edit “Files” in place (you can download and edit them off-line, then upload again). The ability to edit in Canvas is in the “Pages” tool, but all material that is copied from Sakai will be placed in “Files” where it cannot be edited.
•	You will need to check the individual items in Canvas to make sure the dates are appropriate (do this even if you chose to “shift dates” – many dates simply will not come through the transition).
•	The Sakai “Syllabus” tool will not copy over to Canvas (this only applies to the tool, i.e., many faculty add a syllabus file to the resources tool, and that will copy correctly). If needed, you can click the “Print View” in the Sakai Syllabus tool, then copy and paste the text into the Canvas “Pages” tool.
•	Certain types of Sakai Resources will not copy over (web links, citation lists). You will need to recreate these in Canvas.
•	Sakai Lessons and Canvas Modules are not exactly comparable. Lessons will be converted into a series of links in Canvas Modules, and the content itself will end up in the Canvas Files (in a folder name “attachments”). To create an experience that is more similar to Sakai Lessons, you may want to copy your content into Canvas “Pages”.
•	Sakai discussion forums must have an added topic. Forums with no topics will not copy into Canvas.
•	The Canvas “Files” section may still be invisible to students (it will be light gray). If this happens, go to Canvas Settings, click “Navigation” then click the menu next to “Files” and choose “Enable”. You may also need to drag the “Files” item into the upper box (out of the “hidden from students” section).
•	If you copy question pools and your questions have images or attached files, you will need to re-attach those images or files again in Canvas.
" KB0015390 Canvas My courses are not showing up as a student "
If you do not see your courses listed in your Canvas account, please review the scenarios below:
I registered in the last 24 hours.
Course rosters in Canvas are updated daily with information from a Rutgers Student Information System (SIS), either REGIS/WEBREG or Banner. However, there is a delay for new enrollments to appear in the SIS. If you registered for your course today or yesterday, please wait up to 48 hours for your Canvas account to be updated.
The Semester hasn't started yet.
Most courses are not available to students until the first day of the semester. However, if the semester is in session and the course is not listed in your account, please contact the Rutgers Canvas Help Desk.
I was removed for non-payment.
If you have not confirmed your enrollment or made any payments towards your term bill, the University may withhold your enrollment from the course roster. You can verify you are still registered for your courses on Webreg for REGIS-coded courses. 
If you are on a payment plan or are waiting on financial aid/scholarships, please contact the Office of Student Accounting, Billing, and Cashiering.
Are there additional steps I can take?
On the web version of Canvas, you can check future enrollments. Check your All Courses List in Canvas for the registered course. If the course instructor has not published the Canvas course site, the course will appear in future enrollments with an unpublished status. If so, please contact the course instructor to inquire about when you can expect the course site to be published.
If the reasons listed above do not apply, you will want to reach out to your instructor or contact the Canvas Helpdesk:
•	Contact the Instructor – If you have the instructor's name, you can find their contact information on Rutgers People Search or contact the relevant academic unit.
•	Canvas Help Desk – Please have your Rutgers NetID and the course code ready when you call or email.
Additional Information
•	Canvas Course and Enrollment Provisioning
•	Canvas Help Desk
" KB0015553 Canvas Non-Academic/Non-Instructional Purpose Sites "
Legacy learning management systems may have been used for non-academic or non-instructional purposes. Course sites that do not directly serve or support an academic and/or instructional purpose as outlined in the Canvas Use Guidelines will not be permitted on Canvas.  Examples of websites that may be restricted include:
•	Project management, committee work, and/or other administrative purposes.
•	Repositories for the distribution of non-academic/non-instructional content.
•	Communication not related to academics or instruction.
•	Support administrative purposes such as tenure-tracking.
•	Training/content related to non-instructional technologies or training/content related to administrative purposes targeting only staff and/or faculty.
As online collaboration expands at Rutgers University, review the purpose of collaboration and consider a suggested technology alternative to meet your collaboration needs. If it matches any of the ones listed above, please review our list of alternative tools.
Purpose	Description	Alternatives
Repository	Storage space for shared files and archives 	Microsoft OneDrive, Box, Microsoft SharePoint
Personal Projects/Research 	Individual research or projects undertaken, requiring some collaboration 	Microsoft OneDrive, Box, Microsoft Sharepoint
Training/Continuing Education	Non-academic training for employees, staff, vendors, outreach, and non-matriculated students in support of university business	Microsoft Stream
Voting	In class or open forum voting/engagement on a particular topic or question; Attendance tracking 	Qualtrics, iClicker, WeVideo, TopHat, Turning Technologies
Organizational Management	Managing, administering, and collaborating within a department or unit	Microsoft Teams
IT Project Websites 	Repository for IT work efforts 	Microsoft Teams, Microsoft SharePoint, Smartsheet
Chat/Video Conferencing	Remote virtual meetings and collaboration 	WebEx, Zoom, Microsoft Teams
Electronic Annual Report 	Repository for the publishing of annual reports 	Microsoft OneDrive, Box, Microsoft SharePoint, Microsoft Teams, Rutgers Sites
SCORM Content 	Used for academic and certificate programs 	SCORMCloud
Faculty Reappointments & Promotion 	Repository of candidates for reappointments and promotion 	Microsoft Teams
Mediation Guidelines 	Repository to publish materials for mediation efforts 	Rutgers Sites
Developing Working Prototypes for Software Application Designs 	Software development environment and source code control 	JIRA, GitLab (operated by OIT-EI)
Compliance and Ethics Training 	Yearly training on compliance and ethics mandates and policies 	External Vendor Program
Research Sites 	Repository for research-related activities 	Microsoft Teams
Tenure Tracking and Promotion 	Repository of candidates for tenure and promotion 	Microsoft Teams
Faculty Forums 	Platform open to faculty to discuss academic topics of interest 	To Be Determined
Announcements/Communication 	Means to disseminate information to a group	Mailman
Resources
Comparing Box, OneDrive, and Google Drive
" KB0015594 Canvas Notifications in Canvas "
Your Canvas user account is created with a set of default notification settings to keep you informed about your courses. However, you can change these notification settings. Any changes you make apply only to you; the changes do not affect notifications sent to other users in your courses. To learn more about each notification, default settings, and notification triggers, view the Canvas Notifications Guide.
Notifications are sent as one of four delivery types: Notify Me Right Away, Daily Summary, Weekly Summary, or Don’t Send. If you change a setting, the change is made immediately to your account. Notification settings apply to all your courses unless you manage them individually for a single course. You may be able to reply directly to email notifications outside of Canvas if your reply-from email address is added to your Canvas account. Replies are updated in the Canvas Inbox. However, please note that attachments added as part of an external reply are not included with the message displayed in Canvas.
Notes:
•	Notifications are sent to the contact methods specified in your Canvas account. You cannot receive notifications if your contact methods are unconfirmed. If you are not receiving Canvas notifications, please confirm your Canvas contact methods.
•	The Canvas app supports push notification settings. However, managing settings inside the app will override settings in the browser version of Canvas.
•	You may select notification settings for an individual course. Learn how to manage notification settings for a single course.
See the following Canvas Guides for details about changing the contact method for notifications or the frequency with which you are notified:
•	
o	How do I manage my Canvas notification settings?
 All email notifications sent from within a Canvas course come from notifications@instructure.com. The default notification settings for users are listed below:
Error! Filename not specified.
The information displayed in this image is available in the Canvas Notification Guide.
" KB0019223 Canvas RCommunity: Getting Started for Canvas Instructors "
RCommunity, powered by GivePulse, enables instructors to centralize volunteer and community outreach opportunities for their Canvas students. Canvas instructors may create events for their course or curate a list of events from Rutgers and other community partners.  
The RCommunity integration for Canvas is only available for Rutgers courses that are 
•	REGIS-coded courses offered through Banner are not eligible to use the integration.  
•	Designated as Engaged Civic Learning (ECL) or Experiential Learning (XPL) courses in the Rutgers Schedule of Classes.  
•	The original course site, created by automated processes.  Sites with multiple sections (cross-listed or merged sections) or Mirror Sites cannot use the integration.    
This article will cover these topics: 
•	Access RCommunity in Rutgers Canvas.
•	Access RCommunity via the web portal.
•	Create a Canvas course-specific event.
•	Promote affiliate events in your Canvas course.
•	Copy an RCommunity calendar widget to post in your Canvas course.
•	Create Canvas content with your RCommunity calendar.
•	Create Canvas deep links to register for specific RCommunity events.


Access RCommunity in Rutgers Canvas 
It is recommended that course instructors access RCommunity from within their Canvas course initially.  Launching from Canvas will grant you elevated permissions to manage the course in RCommunity.  
1.	Access your Canvas course from the course dashboard or the Courses menu. Click RCommunity in your course navigation. If it is not listed, enable it by managing the course navigation links in course settings. 
2.	Accept Terms of Service and verify your name and time zone. 

Error! Filename not specified. 
3.	The RCommunity group dashboard for your course is visible. You may explore volunteer opportunities at Rutgers and in the surrounding area (A), list (create) events specific to your Canvas course (B), view activity for your other groups and courses within RCommunity (C), or access your RCommunity account and settings (D).  
 
Error! Filename not specified. 
Access RCommunity via the web portal 
1.	Access RCommunity.  
2.	Click the avatar icon in the upper right.  
3.	In the drop-down menu, click Log In.  
4.	Click Login via Rutgers for NetID login. 
Create Canvas course-specific event 
Follow the directions for creating an event for a group. Event privacy should be set to Public to appear in the RCommunity group calendar. 
Promote affiliate events in your Canvas course 
1.	In your RCommunity, click Explore in the upper right menu. 
2.	Search for events to narrow the events list for all offered events. For Rutgers events, click rutgers (A) tag below the search bar. In the filter window, toggle Yes (B) and click Apply (C) to only display Rutgers events.  

Error! Filename not specified. 
3.	Click on the event name. 
4.	In the upper-right corner, click the promote event icon.   
Error! Filename not specified. 
5.	Check the boxes for the groups you administer to include the event in the list of group events.  
6.	Click Send Request(s).  
Error! Filename not specified. 
7.	The event administrator will receive an email to approve the event for promotion in your Canvas course/RCommunity group. Once approved, the event will be displayed on your group’s calendar.  
Create an RCommunity Calendar to post in your Canvas course 
1.	In your RCommunity, click Manage in the upper right.   
2.	In the drop-down menu, select an RCommunity Group. 
3.	In the left menu, click More Tools.  
4.	Click Widgets. 
5.	Copy the HTML code from the Simple Widget for Upcoming Events for your group. See Faculty: GivePulse Integration with Learning Management Systems. 

Error! Filename not specified.
Create Canvas content with your RCommunity calendar 
1.	Create a Canvas Assignment, Announcement, or Page to access the Rich Content Editor. (How do I access the Rich Content Editor as an instructor?) 
2.	Switch to HTML View for your Canvas content. (How do I use the HTML view in the Rich Content Editor as an instructor?)

Error! Filename not specified. 
3.	Paste the HTML code from the GivePulse Simple Widget to display upcoming events and registration buttons for your events and curated events.  Newly created events may not instantaneously appear in the widget.  
4.	Click Save or Save and Publish. 

Error! Filename not specified. 
Create Canvas deep links to register for specific RCommunity events 
1.	Create a Canvas Assignment, Announcement, or Page to access the Rich Content Editor. (How do I access the Rich Content Editor as an instructor?) 
2.	Using the Rich Context Editor, place your cursor where you want to add your RCommunity event. 
3.	Click Apps (A) in the toolbar. Depending on your screen size, you may need to click More (B) to display the icon. In the Apps menu, click RCommunity (C).  You may need to click View All (D) to find the RCommunity option. However, a shortcut will be created for future use after doing this. 

Error! Filename not specified. 
4.	A pop-up will appear. Scroll down (A) or search (B) for RCommunity. Click RCommunity (C). 

Error! Filename not specified. 
5.	Enter a search term (A) or filter (B) for your event. Click Embed (C). Click Registration (D).

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	The event, including description, date, time, and registration link, will be added to your Canvas content.  

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0019326 Canvas Redirect Tool "
The Redirect Tool in Canvas allows course editors to create a custom link in their course navigation. The hyperlink text is customizable and can point to URLS internal or external to the course. This is helpful for instructors who wish to provide an easy path in their course navigation to a course resource. 
Note: When using the Redirect Tool for a link to an item within a Canvas course, the URL must be updated every time the course is copied to a new course site for a new semester, as the link points to the old course site, and your new students will not be able to view the content. 
How to Add The Redirect Tool 
1.	Go to Settings in the course site.
2.	Click on the Apps tab near the top of the page.
3.	Search for the Redirect Tool, then click the icon.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click +Add App to install.
5.	Select Show in Course Navigation to display the link in the course navigation. If it is an external link outside of Rutgers Canvas, select Force Open in a new tab. If internal, unselect this option.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Add the desired URL and name. Then click Add App.
7.	After refreshing your browser, the new item should appear on the left side of the course.
To Update the URL for the Redirect Tool
1.	Go to Settings in the course site.
2.	Click on the Apps tab near the top of the page.
3.	Click on View App Configurations button on the right.
4.	Locate the label/name used for the Redirect Tool, and click on the gear icon on the right.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Click Edit. While retaining "url=", update only the URL after the "=" sign.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Click Submit
" KB0015534 Canvas REGIS: Grade Upload using Excel "
This article outlines the process of uploading final course grades into REGIS using the exported gradebook from Canvas and a spreadsheet template provided by REGIS. 
Before exporting your gradebook and your roster, please ensure that you have done the following steps:
1.	Finalized any weighted assignment groups
2.	Set up a grading scheme
Set up the spreadsheet
1.	 Export the Canvas Gradebook.
2.	 Export the Excel version of your roster from REGIS.
3.	In the download from REGIS, arrange your REGIS roster to sort by NetID:
1.	Click to activate the cell labeled Id and drag your cursor right to highlight all row headings, including NetID, and drag down to highlight all students.
2.	Click Sort & Filter in the ribbon menu.
3.	Click Custom Sort.
4.	In the dialog box, check the box labeled My list has headers.
5.	In the drop-down for the column, select NetID.
6.	Click OK. Your student list is now sorted by Rutgers NetID.
7.	Remove any students who may already have a grade. This should include students with a grade of “W.” To remove a student, select the row, right-click to view the menu options, and then click Delete.
4.	Arrange your Canvas Gradebook export to sort by SIS User ID and remove extra data.
1.	Remove Grade Posting Policy: Highlight Row 2 (Manual Posting) and right-click to open the menu option. Click Delete to remove the row.
2.	Remove Assignment Points: Highlight Row 3 (Possible Points) and right-click to open the menu option. Click Delete to remove the row.
3.	Delete Test Student (optional): Highlight the last row for Test Student and right-click to open the menu option. Click Delete to remove the row.
4.	Delete Assignment Grades: Click to select all grade columns for individual assignments (starting at Column F). Omit the last column for Unposted Final Grade. Right-click to open the menu option. Click Delete to remove the columns.
5.	Click the select-all box to the right of column A.
6.	Click Sort & Filter in the ribbon menu.
7.	Click Custom Sort.
8.	In the dialog box, check the box labeled My list has headers.
9.	In the drop-down, select SIS User ID for the column.
10.	Click OK.
Special Note: For Canvas course sites that include more than one section, instructors will need to separate the student populations into distinct sections. This can be achieved by viewing each section in the gradebook individually and then exporting it as a CSV file. Alternatively, instructors may download all sections and then use Microsoft Excel to first sort by Section, followed by SIS User ID.
Copy and Paste Grades from the Canvas Export File
1.	Review your spreadsheets. The NetIDs should align.
2.	In your Canvas export file, highlight the first cell containing the final grade. Drag your mouse down until you have highlighted all the final grades. You should not include the column heading. Copy these values. 
o	Note: If a student has an override grade entered in Canvas, the grade will need to be copied from the Override Grade column and replace the letter grade you copied.
3.	In the REGIS Export, place your cursor in the cell for the first student (Column E). Paste the values into Column E.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	In the REGIS export file, delete all columns after Column F. You will only have columns:
o	Sec
o	Index
o	Id
o	Student
o	Grade
o	Comment
5.	After finalizing the grade entry in the MS Excel file, select the File option, Save AS, and select CSV (Comma Delimited).
Upload the Finalized File to REGIS
1.	Log in to REGIS with your NetID.
2.	Select Rosters & Electronic Grading Information System (REGIS).
3.	Search for your roster by selecting the term and entering the school, subject, and course number.
4.	Select the Upload Course tab.
5.	Enter the roster information (Semester, Unit, Subject, Course #, Section) to search for your course section.
6.	Indicate the file to be uploaded (CSV file type).
7.	Click Verify Course Upload.
8.	The Verify Course Upload information page is displayed.
9.	After reviewing the information, click 'Upload Course' to submit the uploaded roster.
Additional Resources/Tips
•	Final grades can be submitted at any time during the open grading period. The dates for grade submission are displayed on the roster page in REGIS.
•	Final grades cannot be submitted more than once. All grade changes must be submitted to the Registrar’s Office using a grade change form.
•	Rosters can be submitted with blank grades. Users will be allowed to enter a grade at any time during the grading period for those that are blank.
" KB0015506 Canvas Requesting Canvas Access for Rutgers-Developed Applications "
Rutgers organizational units are encouraged to develop applications and web services to meet the unique needs of their Canvas user population. Canvas features a robust application programming interface (API) that developers can utilize to build applications. A Rutgers campus, school, or unit may develop a programmatic integration with Canvas that requires API or LTI access.
If you are requesting integration support for a commercially available product, please review the External App Integration page for information on courses, schools, and/or top-level integrations. 
Application developers must:
•	Review Rutgers Account Admin Roles and Permissions
•	Request admin access
•	Work with the Rutgers Canvas admins to develop a method for accessing Rutgers Canvas by the application or web service that is independent of a user’s Canvas account.
Developer Keys, Service Accounts & Access Tokens, and LTI Applications
The method of connecting to Rutgers Canvas is dependent on the intended functionality and scope of your application. Some applications may require multiple connection methods, depending on their functionality.
Developer Keys
Developer keys provide access to Rutgers Canvas. Rutgers Canvas is organized into a nested set of accounts (akin to folders), with the broadest hierarchy starting at Rutgers University. It is further divided into campus, school, and subject levels. The two types of developer keys provide different levels of access that may take into account the heirarchy of Rutgers Canvas.
API Dev Keys
An API developer key allows an application to access Rutgers Canvas using REST API web services and is limited by the scope of the key.  Developer API keys can only be scoped by API access, not to a Canvas account; thus an API developer key will have acces to all data for a specific API endpoint. Issued developer API keys are limited in scope to protect Rutgers data. A developer key may include entitlements to search for users, view user enrollments, and search for courses. 
LTI Dev Keys
Learning Tools Interoperability (LTI) applications are web applications designed in accordance with 1Edtech standards, allowing for seamless integration with Canvas. Developer LTI keys are used to install LTI applications into Canvas, adhering to LTI v1.3 standards. Developer LTI keys may utilize LTI advantage and Names and Roles Provisioning Service (NRPS) and have their own restrictions. Application developers should collaborate with Canvas administrators on your campus, school, or department to develop, test, and install your custom application. Discussions with Rutgers Canvas admins may be beneficial to determine how Rutgers Canvas setup may affect planned functionality and features. Please review the Canvas Admin Guides for External Apps.
Service Accounts and Access Tokens
Canvas users may request an access token generated on their user account. The access token inherits the permissions of the user's account and provides scoped permissions to interact programmatically using the Canvas APIs, allowing access to the same data as the user would in the user interface. It is the responsibility of the application developers to adhere to university policies and best practices to ensure the security of Rutgers data.
Canvas service accounts will be created to generate access tokens for Rutgers-developed applications and assigned custom Canvas admin roles in the appropriate Canvas account.
•	Account and Sub-Account Role Comparison
•	Canvas Account Role Permissions
•	Rutgers Account Admin Roles and Permissions
End-User Support
Rutgers organizational units are solely responsible for providing end-user support for applications and services they have developed. As part of ensuring universal access for all users and to adhere to Rutgers University World Wide Web Accessibility Policy, applications and services used by Rutgers University are required to be assessed for accessibility. Developers and stakeholders must collaborate with the Rutgers Office of IT Accessibility to ensure that the application or web services comply with the current adopted version of WCAG. They should also complete the Accessibility Risk Assessment for IT Purchases.
How to Request Developer Keys, Service Accounts & Access Tokens, and LTI applications
To request a developer key or a scoped service account, please contact the Rutgers Canvas administrators. As you design and develop your application or web service, permissions and scopes will evolve. To begin the process, please complete the Request Canvas Access (Dev Keys, Service Accounts & Access Tokens, and LTI Applications) – Fill out form. Detailed requests are appreciated, and requests for full access will be denied.
" KB0015511 Canvas Requesting Canvas Guest Accounts "
A non-affiliated student, staff member, or instructor who does not have an official Rutgers NetID must have a Canvas guest account created to access Canvas. Guest account creation can be requested by a Rutgers-affiliated faculty member, staff, sub-account administrator, or program coordinator. If the request includes adding users to the site(s), please indicate the site by listing the exact name of the course, course code, or course URL. Guest accounts are not intended for users who are waiting for a Rutgers NetID to gain early access; please visit the Early Employee NetID Request System. 
To facilitate user account creation, please download the Canvas Guest User Template. Fill out the following highlighted fields in the spreadsheet:
•	user_id: User(s) email address in all lower case.
•	authentication_provider_id: Use "canvas" by default. This is case-sensitive and must be in lowercase.
•	first_name: List user(s) full first name.
•	last_lame: List user(s) full last name.
•	status: Use "active" by default.
When filling in the user_id, the email address will automatically fill in the following fields: login_id, and email. 
Before sending the spreadsheet to the Canvas Help Desk, please:
•	Do not modify the headers (Row 1). Any deviation from the spreadsheet template will cause the creation to fail, and the file will be sent back for revision.
•	Remove the sample user row before inputting user data.
•	Remove capitalized letters in the users’ email addresses.
•	Save the file as a .csv (Comma Separated Values).
•	Ensure there are no extra (leading or trailing) spaces in each cell.
•	For all users added, copy the formula or fill down the formula in the adjacent columns for authentication_provider_id, login_id, email, and status to complete the spreadsheet. (See copying formula video tutorial)
•	Check if students have active NetID(s) within Canvas; this is to prevent confusion for your user(s). If the user has provided a Rutgers email address, then they have a Rutgers NetID, and you can add the user to the course with their NetID.
These new guest users will have email accounts and will log in via the Email Login option from Canvas.
Note: Account creation in Canvas does not notify the user that their account has been created. It's advised that the account requester send a follow-up email to the person with additional information on how they can sign into their Canvas account, such as how to log into Canvas with Email.
" KB0015445 Canvas Reset Password for Email Logins in Canvas "
Users accessing Canvas using an email login may be guests at Rutgers or continuing education students who are not assigned a Rutgers NetID.
These instructions do not affect Rutgers NetID Passwords.
Email Login
Part 1: Set up your password
If you already know your password, skip to Part 2
1.	Navigate to the Rutgers Canvas Home Page.
2.	Click Email Login located at the top of the page.
3.	Click Forgot Password?
4.	Type your email address as the Login ID and click the Request Password button.
5.	Return to your email account and sign in. Open the email titled Forgot Password: Canvas. The sender is from notifications@instructure.com.
6.	In your email, follow the directions to Click here to set a new password.
7.	After you have changed your password, you will be brought back to the Canvas Login Page.
Part 2: Log into Canvas
1.	Navigate to the Rutgers Canvas Home Page.
2.	Click Email Login located at the top of the page.
3.	Enter your Email for the Login ID and the password you established in Part 1.
4.	When you log in, you will see your Canvas Dashboard.
Contacting The Canvas Help Desk
Dedicated faculty and student support are available for all campuses. If you need assistance with your Canvas account, please visit our contact page.
" KB0019332 Canvas Restore Deleted Items on Canvas "
When a Canvas item is deleted from a site, the following can be restored:
•	Announcements
•	Assignments
•	Assignment Groups
•	Discussions
•	Files
•	Modules
•	Pages
•	Quizzes
Canvas Undelete Function
1.	In your Canvas course, click Home in the course navigation. 
2.	In the URL field, at the top of the browser page, locate the course ID; this is the number that appears after [rutgers.instructure.com/courses/[course ID]].

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	After the course ID, add /undelete. Then click Enter on your keyboard. 
4.	The following page shows all deleted items in the course, along with when they were created and when they were last updated. 
5.	Click Restore next to the desired item(s) you wish to retrieve. The items will now be active in the Canvas course. 
Notes
•	If an assignment or quiz with student submissions is deleted, the submissions will reappear when it is restored. 
•	This applies only to internal Canvas tools. If items are deleted within external tools or app, check the support documentation for the external tool to see if content recovery is possible.
Canvas Page History
Course content created as a Page can be reverted to a previously saved version using View Page History.
•	How do I view the history of a page in a course?
" KB0018776 Canvas Safari Web Browser and External Tools in Canvas "
In Canvas, for many external tools to function correctly with the Safari web browser, the security setting Prevent Cross-Site Tracking must be disabled. When this setting is enabled, the cookies required for external tools to function are not passed back correctly, resulting in an error message.
Mac OS
1.	Open the Safari app on your Mac.
2.	Select Safari from the Control Panel, then go to Settings, and finally click on Privacy.
3.	Find the Prevent Cross-Site Tracking setting and ensure that the slider is disabled.
iPhone/iPad Devices
1.	Open the Settings app on the device, then click on Apps, and finally click on Safari.
2.	Find the Prevent Cross-Site Tracking setting and ensure that the slider is disabled.
Additional Resources
•	Prevent cross-site tracking in Safari on Mac
•	Browse the web privately in Safari on iPhone
" KB0015364 Canvas Sending Messages in Canvas "
Messaging people inside Canvas is different than sending someone a direct email.
The Inbox tool will only allow communication with people in courses that are both published and have not yet reached the course end date. If a course has concluded and the end date has passed, the Inbox tool will no longer display the course as a selectable option.
All Inbox messages are stored inside Canvas.
Faculty and students can update their Canvas notification preferences to receive push notifications to their phone or email notifications to their Rutgers/Personal email address about incoming inbox messages. Instructions can be found at the bottom of this page.
Canvas Conversations
The Inbox is the messaging tool used instead of email to communicate with a course, a group, an individual student, or a group of students. You can communicate with other people in your course at any time.
Use Conversations to:
•	Send a message to someone in your course or group
•	Send a message to yourself (displayed in your Sent folder)
•	Reply to messages from others in your course
•	Filter conversations by course or type
•	View and reply to assignment submission comments
•	You can adjust your notification preferences to receive conversations using external channels.
Error! Filename not specified.
How to set up Email Notifications
Your account notification preferences will determine whether you receive an email or push notification for incoming Canvas Messages. Clicking on the bell icon will bring up the notification time settings.
Error! Filename not specified.
•	To receive a notification right away, choose Notify Immediately.
•	To receive a daily notification, choose Daily summary.
•	To receive a weekly notification, select 'Weekly summary'.
•	If you do not want to receive notifications, choose 'Notifications' off.
Additional Resources
•	How do I add an additional email address as a contact method in Canvas?
•	How do I manage my Canvas notification settings in Canvas?
" KB0015444 Canvas Setting Early Access in Canvas "
Course dates determine when students can view and/or participate in a live site. Please review how term dates, course dates, and section dates affect courses in Canvas.
This page explains how to provide students with early access to the course and outlines the Canvas notifications they will receive.
It is recommended that any changes be made before the start of the semester.
Course Dates Settings
The settings portion of the course is available to instructors and TAs. In Course Navigation, click the Settings link, then scroll down to the Course Dates:
Error! Filename not specified.
1.	Participation: When course sites are created, participation is set to Course.
2.	Course Start Date: The default date is set to the start of the academic term. Different schools have start dates that are earlier or later. This date can be changed by the instructors or at the department's request.
3.	Course End Date: The course end date is set approximately 1 month after the end of the academic term to prevent students from getting locked out immediately. This date can be changed if the instructor would like to extend access after the semester has ended.
4.	Restrict students from viewing course before start date: When enabled, this option prevents students from viewing the course content until the course start date. If this is unchecked when a course site is published, students can view course content at any time before the course begins.
5.	Restrict students from viewing course after end date: When enabled, this option prevents students from viewing the course content after the course end date. If this is unchecked in a published site, students can still view the course, but all content is displayed in a read-only state.
Provide Students With Early Read-Only Access
Read-only access allows students to view the course, syllabus, and non-date-restricted content. Students will not be able to submit assignments, participate in discussions, or take quizzes.  To provide students with early read-only access, change the Participation settings to:
Course Start Date: Leave default term start dates.
Course End Date: Leave default term end dates.
Restrict students from viewing course before start date: UN-CHECKED.
Restrict students from viewing course after end date: UN-CHECKED.
Error! Filename not specified.
With these settings, you can send students a message in Canvas and post course announcements that will be visible in Canvas.
•	Students will receive an email notification if you send them a message.
•	Students will not receive an email notification if you post a new course announcement. If you want students to receive email notifications for announcements, you will need to open the course to Early Full Access.
Provide Students With Early Full Access
Early full access means starting the course before the official term start date. Students can start the course and submit assignments/quizzes unless you individually set available from/to dates on each assignment, quiz, or discussion. To provide early full access to the course, change the following Course Date Settings:
Course Start Date: Empty Field.
Course End Date: Leave default term end dates.
Restrict students from viewing the course before start date: UN-CHECKED.
Restrict students from viewing the course after end date: UN-CHECKED.
Error! Filename not specified.
With these settings, you can send students a message in Canvas and post course announcements that will be visible in the Canvas LMS.
•	Students will receive an email notification if you send them a message.
•	Students will receive an email notification if you post a new course announcement.
Additional Resources
•	How do I use course settings?
•	How do I restrict student access to a course before or after the course dates?
•	How do I change the start and end dates for a course?
•	How do term dates, course dates, and section dates work in Canvas?
•	How do I bulk update due dates and availability dates as an instructor?
•	What is the difference between assignment due dates and availability dates?
•	Student Course Visibility & Participation Flowchart
" KB0015363 Canvas Setting Grading Schemes in Canvas "
Using Grading Schemes in Canvas
A grading scheme is a set of criteria that translates numerical scores to letter grades to demonstrate varying levels of achievement in a course. Without a grading scheme, scores are not measured against any specific standard. It is important that you enable and accurately implement a grading scheme in your Canvas course that matches the information you provide in your course syllabus.
Important information about Grading Schemes:
Grading schemes are required to submit final grades from Canvas to REGIS or Banner. The Rutgers GradeSync tool will allow assigned REGIS graders or assigned Banner instructors to submit the course letter grade in Canvas to the Rutgers student information systems. See Rutgers REGIS GradeSync or Rutgers Banner GradeSync.
Grading schemes vary by department or school. Review your grading scheme carefully and ensure that it aligns with school or departmental policy. (Most Legacy Rutgers departments and schools will not accept B- or C- grades. Some Rutgers Health schools will only accept grades of 1, 2, 3, or 4.)
Copying content will copy over the grading scheme. When using the Import Content tool feature, any customized grading schemes will be transferred to the new course site.
Add a Grading Scheme
1.	Log in to Canvas and navigate to your course.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click Settings to access the Course Details tab.
3.	Locate the Grading Scheme category and then check the box to Enable course grading scheme.
4.	Click +New Grading Scheme to create a new course grading scheme.
5.	In the pop-up window, add a new Grading Scheme Name. 
6.	Then, choose Grade by either Percentage or Points; by default, Percentage is chosen.
7.	Adjust the Letter Grade and Range to match your department's recommendations or the grading scale set forth in your course syllabus.
8.	Once you have set a grading scheme, click Save.

Error! Filename not specified.
9.	From the Grading Scheme drop-down menu, select your Course Grading Scheme in the Course Level Category.

Error! Filename not specified.
10.	Scroll to the bottom of the Settings page and click Update Course Details.
Special Notes
•	The default grading scheme available in Canvas includes course grades that may not be valid grades accepted by your registrar. Please review your grading scheme carefully to ensure it aligns with your school's or departmental policy.
•	Each Grading Scheme needs to be named in order to be saved.
•	To earn a grade, the student must surpass the grade threshold listed in the Grading Scheme without rounding.  If your course policy allows for rounding, then the grading scheme must reflect a lower threshold for a grade range.


•	Canvas allows you to override the final course grade. REGIS GradeSync and Banner GradeSync will accept override grades.
•	Temporary and nonstandard grades must appear in the Canvas grading scheme to be assigned in the gradebook as an override grade. This includes grades such as 1, 2, 3, 4, FC, H, IP, NC, PA, S, TB, TB+, TC, TC+, TD, TF, TNC, TT, TZ, and U.
•	Alternatively, you may submit the temporary grades via REGIS first before using REGIS Final GradeSync. Instructors for Banner-coded courses should use either Banner GradeSync or manually enter the course grades in Banner; you cannot use both methods for a single course section.
Additional Resources
•	How do I hide totals in my students’ grade summaries?
•	How do I add a grading scheme to an assignment?
•	How do I use grading schemes in a course?
•	How do I add a grading scheme in a course?
•	How do I enable an existing grading schemes in a course?
•	How do I override a student's final grade in the Gradebook?
" KB0015442 Canvas Troubleshooting user additions to a Canvas course site "
Reasons Canvas may not find a specific person
Error! Filename not specified.
Depending on campus, school, or department permissions, sub-account admins, teachers, and TAs can add users to any course site they have access to. If you receive the error, "We were unable to find matches below.", it may be for one of these reasons:
•	You are entering an email address that is different from the one associated with the user's Canvas account. Try adding them by selecting Login ID, then enter their Rutgers NetID.
•	You are entering a NetID that is not yet active in Canvas. Accounts are created daily. After 24 hours, please contact the Rutgers Canvas Help Desk if you are still receiving an error.
•	You are trying to add someone who is not affiliated with Rutgers and who does not have a guest account yet. Only administrators can create an email login account. 
Canvas Account Activation Requests
Please send an email to the Rutgers Canvas Help Desk for account activations.
For faculty, staff, or students, Rutgers NetID accounts are created on a daily basis.
To activate guests or non-credit user accounts, please request a Canvas guest account.
" KB0018790 ChatGPT Edu ChatGPT Edu FAQs "
 
Table of Contents
•	General Licensing 
o	How is ChatGPT Edu different from ChatGPT Pro?
o	How is ChatGPT Edu different from ChatGPT Plus?
o	How is ChatGPT Edu different from ChatGPT Free?
o	Can I use a public or free version of ChatGPT?
o	Who at the university is eligible to use ChatGPT Edu?
•	Features and limits 
o	Are there messaging limits on the ChatGPT Edu plan?
o	Does ChatGPT Edu have access to the Team features?
o	Can I purchase a personal license for ChatGPT?
o	How can I access the OpenAI API? 
o	Can I integrate ChatGPT with other third-party applications or systems?
o	Can I use ChatGPT Edu for student data analysis?
o	Which models are available?
o	How do credits work?
o	How do I monitor my usage?
o	When does my usage limit reset?
•	Optimizing ChatGPT Credit Consumption Under the Flexible Licensing Model 
o	Overview
o	Best Practices for Reducing Credit Consumption
o	Match the Model to the Task
o	When should I use Deep Research?
o	Optimizing ChatGPT Codex and ChatGPT Work Usage
o	Image Generation
•	Purchasing 
o	How much does it cost?
o	How to subscribe to ChatGPT?
o	How do I change my subscription tier to ChatGPT?
o	How can I cancel my subscription?
o	What happens to my history and settings if I cancel my subscription?
o	Can I purchase ChatGPT Edu with a PO or credit card?
o	Can I purchase ChatGPT via a term subscription?
•	Account management 
o	How do I access ChatGPT Edu with my university credentials?
o	What if I have an existing account? How do I migrate or merge accounts?
o	How do I move my personal ChatGPT Plus account from a Rutgers email address to a personal email?
o	How can I learn more about ChatGPT or get advanced support?
General Licensing
How is ChatGPT Edu different from ChatGPT Pro?
The ChatGPT Edu license offered through Rutgers is designed to protect university data. Rutgers has executed a Business Associates Agreement and Data Processing Addendum with OpenAI to protect data stored in our tenant. Additionally, interactions and data used in our tenant will not be used to train the underlying large language models. 
How is ChatGPT Edu different from ChatGPT Plus?
ChatGPT Edu is an institutional offering designed for universities and educational environments, featuring enterprise-grade security, administrative controls, and shared workspace capabilities to support students, faculty, and campus operations. It includes access to advanced tools (data analysis, web browsing, file uploads), custom GPT creation, and enhanced language support tailored to academic deployment.
ChatGPT Plus lacks the security controls and administrative features inherent in the Edu platform, making it unsuitable for institutional use. 
How is ChatGPT Edu different from ChatGPT Free?
ChatGPT Free lacks data protection, has low messaging limits, and cannot access OpenAI’s most advanced models.
Can I use a public or free version of ChatGPT?
Only the enterprise instance of ChatGPT licensed through the university software portal can be used to process university data. The enterprise instance is configured to ensure that Rutgers data is not used for OpenAI model training and is governed by both a data protection agreement and a business associate agreement. The Rutgers instance of ChatGPT can be used for select categories of protected data. Learn more in the Data classification and AI matrix.  
Who at the university is eligible to use ChatGPT Edu?
ChatGPT Edu subscriptions must be purchased by a faculty or staff member. Subscriptions can be assigned to faculty, staff, faculty emeriti, students, and sponsored guests.
Back to top
Features and limits
Are there messaging limits on the ChatGPT Edu plan?
Yes.
Does ChatGPT Edu have access to the Team features?
Sharing GPTs in a workspace is the suggested alternative to the Team features. 
Can I purchase a personal license for ChatGPT?
ChatGPT Go, Plus, Pro, and Enterprise are not included in the university agreement. Personal accounts are not covered by our data protection agreement and may pose a risk to institutional data. 
How can I access the OpenAI API? 
Currently, API access to OpenAI Models is available through the Microsoft Azure Foundry. Units interested in purchasing an Azure Cloud Subscription can follow the directions on the Rutgers Cloud website. For those who can wait, the Office of Information Technology (OIT) is actively working to deploy an AI API Gateway to streamline access to multiple AI Models, including OpenAI, without managing a full cloud deployment. The new Gateway Service is scheduled to launch at the end of the spring semester.
Can I integrate ChatGPT with other third-party applications or systems?
You may see the message "Some apps are unavailable. Access to certain apps is limited by your workspace settings. Contact your admin to request access." 
At this time, Rutgers OIT is not approving integrations between ChatGPT and third-party applications. This is due to ongoing evaluation of security requirements and the need to establish formal policies and governance. The AI@Rutgers Working Groups are actively assessing this area and will provide updates as our guidance and governance structures develop.
Can I use ChatGPT Edu for student data analysis?
Yes. ChatGPT Edu can be used to analyze protected and restricted university data. Rutgers signed the necessary data protection agreements with OpenAI and confirmed that any content processed will not be used to train their AI models. View the AI data classification matrix for more information. 
Which models are available?
Access to ChatGPT services varies by access level. Model selection should be aligned with task complexity. In many cases, GPT-5 will meet routine academic and administrative needs. Carefully select the model that best manages your credit allotment.
OpenAI will switch from a weekly to a monthly credit replenishment model on 8/1/26. The pricing tiers and effective monthly credit allocation will remain the same. 
Current Weekly Model Ending 7/31
•	ChatGPT Base ($10/month) No additional weekly usage credits.
•	ChatGPT Standard ($30/month) 100 credits per week.
•	ChatGPT Advanced ($150/month) 750 credits per week. The advanced service is best suited for power users.
New Monthly Model Starting 8/3
•	ChatGPT Base ($10/month) No additional usage credits.
•	ChatGPT Standard ($30/month) 450 credits per month.
•	ChatGPT Advanced ($150/month) 3,250 credits per month. The advanced service is best suited for power users.
To find the new ChatGPT model names and important notes about the model, please review the ChatGPT Edu product page.  
For ChatGPT Edu customers, the following usage is included at no additional cost and does not consume credits:
•	Images: 3 generations per 24-hour rolling period
•	Deep research: 5 queries per rolling 24-hour period
The 24-hour period begins at the time of first use. For example, if a user generates an image at 10:00 AM, they can generate 2 additional images until 10:00 AM the following day.
How do credits work?
Credit consumption is based on OpenAI’s published rate cards for ChatGPT Chat, Codex, and Work. Please note that ChatGPT Chat usage is assessed differently from ChatGPT Codex and Work.
How do I monitor my usage?
OpenAI has not published a means for individuals to check their personal usage; however, all accounts have access to:
•	Unlimited access to GPT-5
•	5 Deep Research queries per rolling 24-hour period
•	Generate 3 images per rolling 24-hour period
These activities do not impact the credits associated with your account. The system will provide contextual warnings if you don’t have enough credits for specific activities.  
When does my usage limit reset?
OpenAI will switch from a weekly to a monthly credit replenishment model on 8/1. The pricing tiers and effective monthly credit allocation will remain the same. 
Prior to 8/3/2026
The weekly limits reset on a rolling basis. This weekly window starts the moment a member sends their first message that consumes credits. This means that your account may not be reset at the same time as other users. ChatGPT admins cannot see your specific reset time.  
After 8/3/2026
Monthly limits will be reset at the start of the next calendar month, in UTC.
Back to top
Optimizing ChatGPT Credit Consumption Under the Flexible Licensing Model
Overview
OpenAI’s ChatGPT flexible licensing model introduces usage-based consumption aligned to model selection and task complexity. Thoughtful use of models and prompts will help you maximize value while staying within institutional guardrails.
Best Practices for Reducing Credit Consumption
•	You can switch between the models within the same conversation. 
o	Begin with Instant to brainstorm or refine your prompt before using a more costly model.
o	Process output using a lower-cost model to minimize costs.
•	Instant will typically be sufficient for routine administrative or academic tasks. Try your query in Instant before using more costly models.
•	Select ChatGPT Instant to prevent messages from consuming credits. Instant may automatically switch to Medium when a request requires more reasoning.
•	For credit-consuming models, consolidate your request into a single, well-scoped prompt rather than multiple iterative queries. Use instant to help develop a multi-step prompt. 
•	Consider generating images on alternate platforms.
•	Align usage with the credit allocation schedule to maximize your plan. 
o	All plans include five Deep Research queries and three Image Generation requests per rolling 24-hour period.
o	Individual credit pools are currently reset weekly after 8/3; they will reset monthly.
o	Unused credits do not carry over.
Match the Model to the Task
ChatGPT offers multiple model modes tailored to different levels of effort and cost. Review the ChatGPT Rate card for the current consumption costs:
•	Instant: Best for everyday tasks such as answering questions, summarizing documents, drafting emails, brainstorming ideas, and basic editing. It provides the fastest responses, uses the fewest credits, and has unlimited access. For most day-to-day work, Instant should be your default choice.
•	Medium: Best for tasks that require more deliberate reasoning, such as writing with multiple constraints, comparing options, analyzing policies, organizing complex information, or solving multi-step problems. Use Medium when Instant doesn't provide enough depth or accuracy.
•	High: Best for work requiring extensive reasoning and careful evaluation, including complex coding, advanced troubleshooting, detailed financial modeling, research synthesis, strategic planning, and nuanced decision-making. This consumes the same number of credits as Medium in Chat, but costs more in Codex and Work.  
•	Pro: Reserved for the most demanding tasks where maximum reasoning capability is needed, such as highly complex software architecture, sophisticated technical design, difficult research problems, or analyses where accuracy is especially critical. Pro consumes the most credits and should be used selectively after determining that High is insufficient.
When should I use Deep Research?
Deep Research is a task-based feature designed for comprehensive analysis, multi-source synthesis, benchmarking, and policy or report development. Each Deep Research request consumes credits and should be reserved for work that genuinely requires structured investigation and validation rather than iterative conversation.
All plans include five Deep Research queries per rolling 24-hour period. Users should avoid using Deep Research for exploratory questions, early ideation, or drafting, as these tasks are usually handled more effectively by Instant or Thinking models.
Optimizing ChatGPT Codex and ChatGPT Work Usage
All activities through the ChatGPT desktop app are billed according to the Codex rate card. This pricing differs from the ChatGPT Chat functions, even though the experience may be similar.
ChatGPT Codex workflows can consume more credits due to larger inputs and outputs. To optimize:
•	Use the appropriate model for the task; avoid higher-effort reasoning levels for simple edits.
•	Avoid pasting large amounts of unnecessary code or documentation.
•	Break large projects into smaller, targeted requests.
•	Limit overly long outputs when detailed explanations are not needed.
•	Keep prompts concise and focused on the specific coding request.
•	Thoughtful prompt design helps preserve your daily allotment while maintaining high-quality results.
•	Limit the number of MCP servers you use. 
•	Optimize your AGENTS.md files. If you work on a larger project, you can control how much context you inject through AGENTS.md files by nesting them within your repository. 
Image Generation
All plans include three Image Generation requests per rolling 24-hour period. Additional images are assessed according to OpenAI’s ChatGPT Rate Card. All individuals at Rutgers have access to free image generation through Adobe Creative Cloud, Copilot, and Gemini. 
Back to top
Purchasing
How much does it cost?
Please review the current licensing options in the Software Portal.
How to subscribe to ChatGPT?
Subscriptions can only be purchased via a monthly subscription using a payment account. Contact your department's business manager to determine if a Payment Account Owner or a Delegated Payment Account Manager has been assigned to your area.
1.	Log in to the Software Portal and find the software you want to subscribe to. 
2.	Search for ChatGPT on the Product Page, click on Get Product...
3.	Click Subscribe.
4.	In the drop-down under Payment Account, choose the account to be charged. You will only see accounts that you have been given access to. 
5.	In the drop-down under Default Item, select the tier you want.
6.	Under Specify your recipients, enter the NetID of the individual(s) you want to subscribe to and select their name from the list.  
7.	Confirm that the information under Cost is correct, then click Subscribe. 
If you receive an error, please email software@rutgers.edu with a screenshot.
How do I change my subscription tier to ChatGPT?
If you are not the Payment Account Owner or Manager who placed your order, you will not be able to update your subscription. To confirm the name of the person who placed your order, so you can reach out to them, please use the following steps:  
1.	Log in to the Software Portal. 
2.	Go to My Account and select My Software.
3.	Find ChatGPT Edu.
4.	Scroll down to the Orders section and click on Filled.
5.	You will see the name of the person who placed your order.
If you are the Payment Account Owner or Manager, please use the following steps:
1.	Log in to the Software Portal and find the software you want to subscribe to. 
2.	Search for ChatGPT on the Product Page, click on Get Product...
3.	Click Subscribe.
4.	In the drop-down under Payment Account, choose the account to be charged. You will only see accounts that you have been given access to. 
5.	In the drop-down under Default Item, select the tier you want.
6.	Under Specify your recipients, enter the NetID of the individual(s) you want to subscribe to and select their name from the list.  
7.	In the drop-down, select the tier you want.
8.	Confirm that the information under Cost is correct, then click Subscribe. 
Note: The monthly charge will always be for the highest tier that was active within that month.
How can I cancel my subscription?
Contact your Payment Account Owner or Manager who placed your order to cancel your subscription. To confirm the name of the person who placed your order:  
1.	Log in to the Software Portal. 
2.	Go to My Account and select My Software.
3.	Find the product name and click ChatGPT EDU.
4.	Scroll down to the Orders section and click on Filled.
5.	You will see the name of the person who placed your order. 
What happens to my history and settings if I cancel my subscription?
Your chat history and projects will be deleted. OpenAI does not provide a mechanism to export your content.  
Can I purchase ChatGPT Edu with a PO or credit card?
No. ChatGPT is only available through the monthly subscription model. Monthly subscriptions can only be purchased if you have been granted access to a departmental payment account by its owner. The payment accounts are tied directly to a General Ledger (GL) or Project String for your department and must be set up by your department's Director/Business Manager. Payment cannot be made with a purchase order or a credit card. For more information, view the article on Payment account manager information for the Software Portal. 
Can I purchase ChatGPT via a term subscription?
No. ChatGPT is only available through the monthly subscription model. Monthly subscriptions can only be purchased if you have been given access to a departmental payment account by the owner of that account. The payment accounts are tied directly to a General Ledger (GL) or Project String for your department and must be set up by your department's Director/Business Manager. Payment cannot be made with a purchase order or a credit card. For more information, view the article on Payment account manager information for the Software Portal. 
Back to top
Account management
How do I access ChatGPT Edu with my university credentials?
1.	Go to ChatGPT. 
2.	Enter your NetID@rutgers.edu email address and click Continue. 

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Select Rutgers University. 

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	You'll be redirected to the login page to enter your NetID and password. 
5.	If you have logged in successfully, you will see the Rutgers logo in the lower left corner. 
What if I have an existing account? How do I migrate or merge accounts?
Accounts will be provisioned with ChatGPT Edu using your NetID@rutgers.edu email address, which will also be used to log in. If you have an existing Free or Plus ChatGPT workspace account using a non-Rutgers email address, you can migrate your data into the Rutgers ChatGPT workspace.
How do I move my personal ChatGPT Plus account from a Rutgers email address to a personal email?
At this time, OpenAI does not support changing the email address on an existing Plus subscription/account while retaining data and settings. You may have seen Community Posts on forums that suggest otherwise, but the Official Guidance from ChatGPT is that this is not possible. 
The current path available for someone who wishes to move their subscription from a Rutgers email to a personal email is:
1.	Export all ChatGPT history and data (this provides a full reference copy).
2.	Cancel the existing Plus subscription tied to the Rutgers email address.
3.	Create a new Plus subscription under the preferred personal email address.
4.	Use the exported file to reference any prior chats or context as needed.
How can I learn more about ChatGPT or get advanced support?
Please review OpenAI’s knowledge base to learn more about ChatGPT. Their services are rapidly evolving, and this is the best source of information. You can also contact support by clicking the chat icon at the bottom of that page.  
Back to top
" KB0012756 Cisco AMP FAQ How do I log into my Cisco Secure Endpoint (formerly AMP) Group? "
Navigate to the Cisco Secure Endpoint (formerly AMP) console. You will need to log in using your NetID@rutgers.edu credentials and may be directed to Duo.
" KB0012755 Cisco AMP FAQ How do I run my own Cisco Secure Endpoint (formerly AMP) group? "
We are working to allow administrators to run their own groups with unique policies. Currently, this process is manual. Please contact antivirus_support@rutgers.edu to request your own Cisco Secure Endpoint (formerly AMP) Group.
" KB0012751 Cisco AMP FAQ What antivirus software is used for university-owned equipment? "
Rutgers has an agreement with Cisco to offer Secure Endpoint (formerly AMP for Endpoints) for all university-owned equipment which can be found on the Software Portal.
" KB0012752 Cisco AMP FAQ What are the system requirements for Cisco Secure Endpoints? "
Refer to the list below to determine if your operating system has been specifically tested with AMP. It supports both 32-bit and 64-bit versions of these operating systems. Additionally, an active internet connection is required to maintain the most up-to-date threat detection.
Cisco Secure Endpoints (formerly Cisco AMP for Endpoints) supported OS versions
See Cisco's documentation for your OS:
•	Windows
•	Mac
•	Linux
For the latest information on System Requirements and overall information, please visit the Cisco Secure Endpoint Datasheet.
" KB0012754 Cisco AMP FAQ What is a Cisco Secure Endpoint (formerly AMP) Group? "
For IT staff members, the Cisco Secure Endpoint (formerly AMP Endpoint) management console allows for segregating sets of clients from each other in the form of Groups. These are similar in concept to Active Directory domains but are generally unrelated.
Cisco Secure Endpoint Groups comprise a unique list of user and administrator accounts, as well as a distinct set of policies. They are ideal for allowing departmental unit computing managers and specialists to have full control over their Secure Endpoint deployments without having to manage their own server infrastructure. Only the super-administrators of the Cisco Secure Endpoint management server can pass between Groups. Policies, Groups, User Accounts, and Lists can only be created and deleted by Super-Admins of the Cisco Secure Endpoint Management Service. Each Group administrator is restricted to their own environment.
" KB0012753 Cisco AMP FAQ What is Cisco Secure Endpoint (formerly AMP)? "
Cisco Secure Endpoint (formerly AMP) is a complete, optionally managed security solution provided by Rutgers OIT to faculty and staff. Cisco Secure Endpoint prevents attacks by providing the latest global threat intelligence to strengthen defenses, a built-in antivirus (AV) engine to detect and block attacks at point-of-entry, built-in sandboxing technology to analyze unknown files, and proactive protection capabilities that close attack pathways and minimize vulnerabilities. If malware evades these prevention measures and gets inside, Cisco Secure Endpoint continuously monitors and records all file activity to quickly detect malicious behavior, retrospectively alert security teams, and then provide deep visibility and a detailed recorded history of the malware’s behavior over time—where it came from, where it’s been, and what it’s doing. Cisco Secure Endpoint can then automatically contain and remediate the threat. Cisco Secure Endpoint protects endpoints—like laptops, workstations, servers, and mobile devices—running Windows, macOS, Linux, Android and iOS.
" KB0016162 Classroom Support RU–Camden IT classroom technology FAQs "
Table of Contents
•	Enhanced classroom equipment isn’t working. Who do I report it to?
•	Do you offer training for using the classroom equipment?
•	Do I need to register my laptop with OIT to use it in a classroom?
•	How can I get software installed on a classroom instructor's PC?
•	Where can I obtain a wireless microphone to use in a classroom?
•	Are remotes available for the VCR/DVD players in the classrooms
•	What should I do if the device I am using via the smart panel is producing sound but no video?
•	Why is the screen on my HP laptop not displaying on the projector?
•	Why is the screen on my Toshiba laptop not displaying on the projector?
•	Why is the screen on my PowerBook not being projected?
Enhanced classroom equipment isn’t working. Who do I report it to?
For classroom equipment assistance, email the Help Desk at help@camden.rutgers.edu or call 856-225-6274.
Do you offer training for using the classroom equipment?
Training is available by appointment. To schedule, send an email to help@camden.rutgers.edu
Do I need to register my laptop with OIT to use it in a classroom?
No. Registration of a laptop for use in a classroom is not necessary. You should use RUWireless. See the RUWireless FAQ for details.
How can I get software installed on a classroom instructor's PC?
Faculty members who need specific software to be available in classrooms for the semester should provide the software to the RU-Camden Information Technology Help Desk (at help@camden.rutgers.edu or by calling 856-225-6274) at least four weeks before the semester starts. Last-minute requests will not give staff enough lead time to load and test software before the new term starts.
Check with Help Desk to be sure the software will be compatible with current hardware and to discuss any other technical considerations affecting the software’s performance in the lab or classrooms.
Where can I obtain a wireless microphone to use in a classroom?
Science Lecture Hall: See the secretary on the first floor.
Fine Arts 110 and North Conference Room: The microphone is stored in the podium.
Penn 401 and Walt Whitman Center: The microphone is located in a drawer inside of the AV rack.
None of the other rooms are equipped to support a wireless microphone.
Are remotes available for the VCR/DVD players in the classrooms
Yes, you have to request it by emailing help@camden.rutgers.edu.
You can borrow it for one class or the entire semester.
What should I do if the device I am using via the smart panel is producing sound but no video?
You should first try switching to another device and back to the one you are using. For example, if you are trying to use the Instructor computer and no video is coming up, try switching to Personal Laptop and back to see if that works. If that doesn’t work, try powering down the projector and turning it back on. Sometimes, the projectors go into sleep mode, and they don’t wake up when prompted. When you power down the projector, wait 2-3 minutes before turning it back on.
Why is the screen on my HP laptop not displaying on the projector?
Sometimes the laptop needs to be put in a different display mode. To do this on your HP laptop, press the Fn + F4 key combination either once or twice, depending on whether you want the screen displayed only through the projector or on the laptop as well.
Why is the screen on my Toshiba laptop not displaying on the projector?
Before using a PowerBook in one of the smart classrooms, you may need to rescan the displays to use them. To do this, connect the PowerBook to the VGA cable on the smart panel. Next, go to Displays in System Properties, or, if the display icon is in the menu bar, click it. Finally, you should choose rescan. When the computer is done, you should be able to use the F5 or F7 key to switch display modes (laptop only, laptop and projector, or projector only).
Why is the screen on my PowerBook not being projected?
Before using a PowerBook in one of the smart classrooms, you may need to rescan the displays so they can be used. To do this, connect the PowerBook to the VGA cable on the smart panel. Next, go to Displays in System Properties, or, if the display icon is in the menu bar, click it. Finally, you should choose rescan. When the computer is done, you should be able to use the F5 or F7 key to switch display modes (laptop only, laptop and projector, or projector only).
" KB0012439 Computer Labs Accessing Azure Virtual Desktop from the web "
Azure Virtual Desktop (AVD) is a new virtualization service hosted in the Microsoft cloud called Azure. It allows multiple users to access a single copy of Virtual Windows 11. This maximizes hardware potential and extends the computing options for Rutgers University. Users can access their applications anywhere with an internet connection.
Web client: Azure Virtual Desktop
1.	Navigate to the Azure Virtual Desktop
o	If you are a non-RBHS student and a non-Student Worker, enter your ScarletMail email address in the format netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu.
o	If you are a Faculty, Staff, Student Worker, or RBHS Student, enter your Rutgers Connect email in the format netid@domain.rutgers.edu.
o	If you are a Guest, enter your Rutgers Connect email in the format netid@domain.rutgers.edu, or if you do not have a Connect email, use netid@rad.rutgers.edu. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Enter your NetID password, then click Sign In.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	After logging in, a list of available applications will be displayed. Click the Lab Desktop icon to launch the virtual desktop.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	A second prompt will come up to log in, make sure you enter your NetID email as the username and your NetID password.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	You can navigate back to the application page by clicking All Resources and close an open Application by clicking the X to the right of the desired Application.

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	When you are finished, you can log out of the webpage by clicking on your Username in the upper right-hand corner, then click on Sign Out from the dropdown.

     Error! Filename not specified.
 
" KB0012440 Computer Labs Accessing Azure Virtual Desktop with the iOS client "
Azure Virtual Desktop (AVD) is a new virtualization service hosted in the Microsoft cloud called Azure. It allows multiple users to access one copy of a Virtual Windows 10. This maximizes hardware potential and extends the computing options for Rutgers University. Users can access their applications anywhere with an internet connection.
iOS Client: Windows Virtual Desktop
1.	Select any browser and go to https://aka.ms/rdios. Then select Open if prompted.  
2.	Select Get to download the Windows App Mobile app.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Enter your Apple ID and password when prompted.
4.	Launch the Remote Desktop Mobile app, you should be prompted for access to your Bluetooth, microphone, and camera. You can deny access, but you will not be able to use features related to those services (Bluetooth mouse and keyboard, etc), and you can skip through the introductory window.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Select the blue plus icon in the upper right-hand corner.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Select Workspace.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Enter URL https://rdweb.wvd.microsoft.com/api/arm/feeddiscovery

Error! Filename not specified.
8.	If you are a non-RBHS student, enter your ScarletMail email address in the format netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu. If you are an RBHS student, faculty, or staff member, enter your Rutgers Connect email in the format netid@domain.rutgers.edu.

     Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Enter your NetID password.

     Error! Filename not specified.
10.	Select the application you want to open.

Error! Filename not specified.
11.	Enter your NetID email and password again.

Error! Filename not specified.
12.	Upon launching the application, to open additional applications or to return to the device selection screen, select the black Windows icon on the top and then the home icon.

Error! Filename not specified.

Error! Filename not specified.
     
" KB0012441 Computer Labs Accessing Azure Virtual Desktop with the macOS client "
Azure Virtual Desktop (AVD) is a new virtualization service hosted in the Microsoft cloud called “Azure”. It allows multiple users to access one copy of a Virtual Windows 10. This maximizes hardware potential and extends the compute options for Rutgers University. Users can access their applications anywhere that they have an internet connection.
macOS Client: Azure Virtual Desktop
1.	Open any browser and go to Windows App in the Mac App Store 
o	(type "Windows App" verbatim).
2.	Click Open to go to the app store.
3.	Log in with your Apple ID, if prompted.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click Get.  
o	Alternatively, you may instead see Open, which means that you have already installed the Microsoft Azure Remote Desktop application.
5.	Open the Azure Remote Desktop app.
6.	Click Workspaces at the top.
7.	Click Add workspace and enter the URL: https://rdweb.wvd.microsoft.com/api/arm/feeddiscovery 

     Error! Filename not specified.
8.	If you are a non-RBHS student, enter your ScarletMail email address in the format netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu. If you are an RBHS student, student worker, faculty or staff member, enter your Rutgers Connect email in the format netid@domain.rutgers.edu.

     Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Enter your NetID password.

     Error! Filename not specified.
10.	Download your workspace if it did not automatically or if there is an update.

     Error! Filename not specified.
11.	Click on the application you want to open.
12.	Enter in your netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu (or netid@domain.rutgers.edu if you are a student worker, RBHS, faculty or staff member) and password again to launch the application.
 
" KB0012442 Computer Labs Accessing Azure Virtual Desktop with the Windows client "
Azure Virtual Desktop (AVD) is a new virtualization service hosted in the Microsoft cloud called “Azure”. It allows multiple users to access one copy of a Virtual Windows 10. This maximizes hardware potential and extends the compute options for Rutgers University. Users can access their applications anywhere that they have an internet connection.
Desktop Client: Azure Virtual Desktop
1.	When downloading the client for your Operating System version, you'll have to check your System type first. It will determine which is the correct one for your machine. 
1.	Click on Start.
2.	Click on Settings.
3.	Click on System.
4.	Click on About, on the bottom left.
5.	The System Type Field will tell you which installer to use. 
	In the example shown in the picture below, you would need the 64-bit version.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Download the Client that correlates to your System type.
	Windows 64-bit
	Windows 32-bit
	Windows ARM64
2.	Install the desktop client.
1.	Run the Client Installer file you just downloaded by double-clicking on the file.
2.	Click on Next.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Check I accept the terms in the License Agreement after reviewing, and click Next.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Select the option that applies to your individual situation. Most common is to select Install just for you (Username), then click Install.
	Note: An Admin may choose to install for all users on a machine with multiple users.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	When the Installation has been completed, Click on Finish. 
	If the Launch Remote Desktop when setup exits option is checked, the AVD Remote Desktop application will launch after clicking Finish.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Launch the Application.
1.	Click Remote Desktop.
2.	When the Application opens, click on the Subscribe button on the Let’s Get Started page.
4.	If you are a non-RBHS student, enter your ScarletMail email address in the format netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu. If you are an RBHS student, student worker, faculty, or staff member, enter your Rutgers Connect email in the format netid@domain.rutgers.edu, then click Next.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Enter your NetID password, then click Sign In.
6.	After login, a list of available applications will be displayed. Double-click on Default Desktop or Lab Desktop to launch it.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	A Windows Security Prompt will appear. The username field should be filled with the email you entered earlier, but please enter your NetID Password and click OK.

Error! Filename not specified.
8.	The application will open and appear as a standard desktop app installed on your machine. 
9.	You can close out of the sessions as you would a normal application using the X in the top right corner.
10.	To open another AVD application you can do the below methods.
o	Open the Remote Desktop application from the desktop icon or start menu to easily access your AVD applications.
o	Once subscribed, you can navigate to the start menu and the applications will show under Recently Added, these icons can be clicked on directly to access the application. They can be placed on the desktop, and taskbar for easier convenience.
" KB0012438 Computer Labs Accessing Virtual Computer Labs "
Our Virtual Labs use Azure Virtual Desktop (AVD). It offers several key benefits:
•	Capacity for unlimited simultaneous usage
•	Local storage options
•	Access to some programs that cannot be licensed for physical labs
•	Access to the Rutgers Mobility Printer Queues
Students, faculty, staff, and individuals with a guest role can utilize the OIT virtual computer lab's PCs and all Windows applications provided from any location at any time. However, guests will need to have their sponsor request a Rutgers Connect license before they can access the Virtual Labs. 
Available applications can be found on the Application List.
How to connect to Azure Virtual Desktop (AVD)
There are several ways to connect to WVD, depending on your device. We suggest using the web client for ease and convenience. You can find instructions below:
•	Accessing Azure Virtual Desktop with the macOS client
•	Accessing Azure Virtual Desktop with the Windows client
•	Accessing Azure Virtual Desktop with the iOS client
•	Accessing Azure Virtual Desktop with the web client
Printing on Campus
Azure Virtual Desktop has access to the Mobility print queue, which enables you to print a job from your session and release the print job at any Papercut enabled print release station:
1.	Open the file you want to print.
2.	Choose File > Print.
3.	Choose either oit_wvd_bw_q for black and white or oit_wvd_color_q for color prints.

Error! Filename not specified.
1.	Release the job at a print station.
Printing Locally
To print a file from Azure Virtual Desktop to your local computer, follow the steps below.
1.	Open the file you want to print.
2.	Choose File > Print.
3.	Choose Remote Desktop Virtual Printer from the Select Printer options.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	You will see a message in the upper right hand corner stating the print job has started. 

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Once the file is downloaded, it will pop up in the bottom left-hand corner of your browser.
Saving Files
To save files, you will need to upload them to a cloud storage solution, as remote file saving is disabled.
It's suggested to save your files to OneDrive, part of your Rutgers Connect account. Box and your files in ScarletApps are also available.
Request Additional Software
Submit any requests for additional software availability to OIT Computer Lab Software Request.
Contact
If you have questions or concerns, contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0012455 Computer Labs Applications available on the Virtual Computer Labs "
Logging in to the Virtual Computer Labs gives Rutgers students, faculty and staff access to a wide range of useful software. The software available in the virtual lab is always the PC version of software, which can sometimes be a little different than what you may be used to on a Mac.
For instructions on connecting to the Virtual Computer Labs, saving files or sharing files for printing, please see the Accessing Virtual Computer Labs article.
Available applications on the Virtual Computer Labs
3D Viewer
7-Zip
Adobe Acrobat
Adobe Audition 2025
Adobe Bridge 2025
Adobe Creative Cloud  
Adobe Dreamweaver 2021  
Adobe Illustrator 2025 
Adobe InDesign 2025
Adobe Media Encoder 2025   
Adobe Photoshop 2025
Adobe Premiere Rush
Apache NetBeans IDE 25
ArcGIS Pro
Arena 16.20 (64-bit)
Audacity 3.7.4   
Box
Calculator      
Eclipse 
EndNote 25
FlexSim 2025
Google Chrome  
Google Earth Pro  
IBM SPSS Amos 31  
IBM SPSS Statistics  
iTunes
JMP Student Edition 18  
Kurzweil 3000 v.22 
Mail and Calendar
Maple 2025
MATLAB R2025a  
Media Player
Microsoft 365 Copilot
Microsoft Bing
Microsoft Clipchamp
Microsoft Edge
Microsoft Excel
Microsoft OneDrive  
Microsoft Paint
Microsoft Powerpoint
Microsoft Project - en-us
Microsoft SQL Server 2019 LocalDB
Microsoft Teams
Microsoft Visio - en-us 
Microsoft Visual Studio Code 
Microsoft Word
Mocha TN3270 for Windows 7/8/10/11  
Mozilla Firefox (x64 en-US) 
MySQL Workbench 8.0 CE 
Notepad++ (64-bit x64)  
NVivo 15
OneNote 
Origin 2025b
Power Automate
PsychoPy 2024.2.4 win64  
PuTTY release 0.81 (64-bit)
Python 3.13.5 (64-bit)
R for Windows 4.5.1
Remote Desktop Client
Revvity ChemDraw Swuite 25.0.2 x64
RStudio  
SAS 9.4
Scratch 3 3.29.1 
StataNow19
Visual MINTEQ  
VLC media player
Weather
Wolfram 14.2 (W-WIN-STANDARD 14.2.1 11457624)
Xming 6.9.0.31  
" KB0015141 Conferencing and Telephones Video Conference Platforms Comparison Table "
This page compares the synchronous meeting applications available at Rutgers University: Microsoft Teams, Webex, and Zoom.
Video Conference Platforms Comparison Table
 	Microsoft Teams	Cisco Webex	Zoom
Format	Audio / Video / Sharing	Audio / Video / Sharing	Audio / Video / Sharing
 	Channel	Meetings	Meetings
 	Ad hoc	Webinars	Webinars
 	Private	 	 
Maximum attendees	 	 	 
Faculty / Staff accounts	1,000 Meetings / 20,000 Webinars	1,000 Meetings / 1,000 Webinars / 100,000 Webinar Webcast	300 Meetings
Student accounts	1,000 Meetings / 20,000 Webinars	1,000 Meetings /1,000 Webinars / 100,000 Webinar Webcast	300 Meetings
Shared/Departmental accounts	1,000 Meetings / 20,000 Webinars	1,000 Meetings / 1,000 Webinars / 100,000 Webinar Webcast	1,000 Webinar upon request
1,000 Meetings / 3,000 and 10,000 Webinars / Live Streaming per special requests
Devices supported	 	 	 
Desktop/laptop	 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
Mobile/tablets	 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
Phone only	Additional License Required	 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
Stationary videoconferencing	 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
Features	 	 	 
Cloud recording	 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
Local recording on the host device	 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
In-conference chat	 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
Screen sharing	 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
Document/application sharing	 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
Virtual whiteboard shared	 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
Breakout rooms	Max 50 rooms / Max 300 participants in meeting	Max 100 rooms / Max 100 participants per room	Max 50 rooms / Max 200 participants in meeting
In-conference polling	 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
Maximum users on-screen	49	81	49
Canvas Integration	 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
Schedule in the calendar	 	 	 
Office 365	 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
Outlook	 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
ScarletMail	N/A	N/A	 Error! Filename not specified.
Storage integration	 Error! Filename not specified.
N/A	N/A
Security and compliance	 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
Accessibility	 	 	 
Live captioning/transcription	 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified.
 Error! Filename not specified. 
" KB0019209 Conferencing and Telephones What different webinar options are available? "
Rutgers offers several options for hosting webinars, each with distinct features. Zoom Webinars and Microsoft Teams Webinars both allow for the hosting of large-scale virtual events, but they differ in their pricing, capacity, engagement features, integrations, and security controls.
Often, the tool used for hosting webinars can be determined by the webinar's reach and needs. Due to its widespread use, Zoom is often chosen for external events that require advanced customization. Teams' integration into Microsoft 365 means greater cost-effectiveness, enhanced compliance, and seamless enterprise integration, making it a popular choice for internal or hybrid use.
Key Differences
Some key differences between the two webinar tools include:
•	Scale 
o	Zoom supports up to 10,000 attendees.
o	Teams Town Halls' support up to 20,000 attendees.
•	Customization 
o	Zoom offers more external-facing branding and registration customization.
o	Teams emphasizes compliance, security, and integration with Microsoft apps.
•	Use Case Fit 
o	Zoom Webinars are often the preferred choice for marketing events, external training sessions, and large public-facing events.
o	Teams Webinars are often the choice for University communications, internal training, and events where Microsoft 365 integration is critical.
Webinar Feature Comparison Chart
Feature	Zoom Webinar	Teams Webinar	Teams Town Halls
Recommended Use Cases	One-to-many broadcast model where attendees are view-only and interact primarily via Q&A and Chat.	Single presenter or panel presenting to an interacting audience.
Attendees are visible to all users in the meeting and, by default, can use Q&A, chat, polls, and non-verbal reactions.
Example: Holding an all-hands unit meeting where attendees can communicate with presenters and each other via chat.	Single presenter or panel presenting to an interacting audience.
Attendees are not visible to other users, but they can interact via Q&A, which logs their names for reporting purposes.
Example: Hosting a large guest lecture with audience questions.
Capacity	1,000 attendees standard. Up to 10,000 by special request	Up to 1,000 interactive attendees	Up to 20,000 view-only attendees
Roles	Host - Schedules, configures, and begins the webinar. Begins and ends recordings, opens polls, moderates users, and ends the webinar.
Co-Host - All host abilities aside from beginning and ending the webinar.
Panelist - Can share audio, video, and screen content. Can view and moderate Q&As.
Attendee - View-only members who can interact via chat, polls, or Q&As.
Review Zoom's role comparison chart for more information.	Organizer - Schedules and creates the webinar. Can start recordings.
Co-Organizer - Assists in webinar moderation, Q&A management, and participant controls. Can unmute Attendees.
Presenter - Can share audio, video, and screen content.
Attendee - Registered viewers of the webinar who can interact via chat, polls, or Q&As.	Organizer - Schedules and creates the webinar.
Co-Organizer - Assists in webinar moderation and Q&A management.
Presenter - Can share audio, video, and screen content. Can also moderate Q&As.
Attendee - Viewers who can only interact via moderated Q&A submissions.
Presenter Access	Rutgers Zoom users or external individuals can be added as presenters.	Rutgers Connect users or external individuals can be added as presenters.	Rutgers Connect users or external individuals can be added as presenters.
Attendance Configuration	Can be opened to:
•	Rutgers Zoom users only
•	Any Zoom accounts
•	Public guests	Can be opened to:
•	Specific Rutgers Connect people and groups
•	All Rutgers Connect users
•	Public guests	Can be opened to:
•	Specific Rutgers Connect people and groups
•	All Rutgers Connect users
•	Public guests
Engagement Tools	Polls, Q&A, chat, reactions, post-webinar survey
Breakout rooms are not supported in webinars	Polls, Q&A, chat, reactions, and integrations with Teams apps	Moderated Q&As
Integrations	Streaming services	Deep integration with Microsoft 365 apps (Outlook, Excel, PowerPoint, SharePoint, etc.)	Deep integration with Microsoft 365 apps (Outlook, Excel, PowerPoint, SharePoint, etc.)
Security	Password protection, waiting rooms, and role-based access	Authentication via Microsoft 365, compliance recording, and advanced security with Teams Premium	Authentication via Microsoft 365, compliance recording, and advanced security with Teams Premium
Reporting & Analytics	Detailed attendee reports and engagement metrics	Attendance and engagement reports with integration into Power BI for analytics	Attendance and engagement reports with integration into Power BI for analytics
Accessibility	•	Automated transcriptions and captions
•	Assigning users to provide human-generated captions
•	Dedicated video feeds for sign language interpretation
•	Separate audio channels for multi-language interpretation	Automated transcriptions and captions	Automated transcriptions and captions
Practice Sessions	Webinars can be opened for Presenters prior to going live, and will not go public until the Host starts the webinar.
Can be limited to:
•	Hosts and Panelists
•	Hosts and Panelists with unidirectional chat to attendees
•	Open chat for all participants	N/A	N/A
Streaming	Can stream to YouTube, Facebook, and other platforms	Can stream internally or externally	Can stream internally or externally, supporting large-scale broadcasts
License Acquisition	•	There are a limited quantity of Zoom Webinar licenses.
•	Licenses for webinars up to 1,000 participants must be requested from your Rutgers Connect Domain Administrator.
•	Licenses for 3,000 or 10,000 participant webinars must be requested via the Zoom Webinar Bookings Calendar	•	Can be created by any Rutgers Connect user
•	Microsoft Teams Premium is available for more advanced features	•	Can be created by any Rutgers Connect user
•	Microsoft Teams Premium is available for more advanced features
 
" KB0012964 Connect Admin Tool (CAT) FAQ How can I ensure a retiring/otherwise departing user will continue to receive email? "
When a user is ready to depart from their role at the university but needs to continue receiving mail sent to their netid@domain.rutgers.edu address, a delegated admin can use CAT to set up a Mail User, which essentially acts as a forward.
Below are the steps for delegated admins to accomplish this process:
1.	The admin must search for the user in CAT and delete the user’s alias for their domain, and any @rutgers.edu aliases the user has associated with their Microsoft 365 account.
2.	Search for the user within CAT and within the Microsoft 365 action menu, use the Modify UPN menu option to change their UPN to the @connect.rutgers.edu domain. 
o	If they have an @rutgers.edu address set as their primary SMTP address, change that to be netid@connect.rutgers.edu by using the Modify Primary SMTP menu option.
3.	Remove any domain-specific and @rutgers.edu aliases from their Microsoft 365 account by using the Modify Aliases menu option. Once they no longer have any domain-specific email addresses associated with their account and they no longer have any @rutgers.edu aliases assigned to their Microsoft 365 account, wait 30 minutes for the changes to take effect.
4.	Navigate to the Mail Users area in CAT and click Create Mail User, enter the user’s NetID and old domain in the Email Address field, and the non-Connect address at which they would like to receive mail in the External Email Address field.
For more information, see the help documentation in CAT for Mail Users. 
" KB0012965 Connect Admin Tool (CAT) FAQ How can I license a new user? "
If users who should have a Connect license currently do not have one assigned, delegated administrators can license them using CAT.
1.	Log into CAT and use the search box to find the user.
2.	Within the Microsoft 365 action menu click Assign License. 
o	It’s recommended that you then set their UPN to your domain by using the Modify UPN menu option.
The process will take about 30 minutes to complete.
For more information, see the help documentation in CAT for Managing Users. 
" KB0012967 Connect Admin Tool (CAT) FAQ How can I lock a user's Connect account? "
Delegated administrators do not need to contact OIT and request that an account within their unit be locked. They can lock the account themselves using CAT by looking up the user and then, from within the Microsoft 365 action menu, selecting Modify Account Status. If the account needs to be unlocked later, the process is identical.
More information is available in the CAT Documentation.
" KB0012966 Connect Admin Tool (CAT) FAQ How can I move users between domains in Connect? "
Through cooperation between the delegated admins for both domains, a user can be moved from one domain to another without the admins having to contact Connect Support.
1.	The delegated admins for both the old and new departments should coordinate a time for the move.
2.	The delegated admin for the user’s original domain should look up the user in CAT and change their UPN to “connect.rutgers.edu”. 
o	30 minutes should be allowed for the domain change to sync with Azure AD; the user will not be able to log in during this time.
3.	After this waiting period, the delegated admin for the user’s desired domain should then use CAT to change the user’s UPN from “connect.rutgers.edu” to the new domain. 
o	Again, 30 minutes should be allowed for this change to sync.
The email addresses of delegated administrators for other departments can be found on the Departmental IT Contact page. 
" KB0012963 Connect Admin Tool (CAT) FAQ How do I manage Unified Groups? "
Delegated administrators can create groups and edit the settings of already-created groups in their domain using the Unified Groups section within CAT. Membership of Unified Groups can be managed via the following methods:
•	Owners of a Unified Group can add/remove group/team members via Outlook. 
o	In Outlook, users can be added to the group as either owners or members; in most cases, users should be added as members so that they do not have administrative privileges over the entire group. Outlook can also be used by group members and owners to access a shared planner, notebook, and more. Some settings, such as MailTip and Message Approval, must be edited through EAC by an admin.
•	Domain admins can add/remove members of a Unified Group through EAC; however, the Domain Admin must first be listed as an owner of the Unified Group. Domain admins can add/remove owners via the CAT tool. Please note that the CAT tool cannot be used to add/remove members.
For more information, see the help documentation in CAT for Microsoft 365 Unified Groups. 
 
" KB0016379 Content Management Adobe Creative Cloud in Canvas for Instructors "
Users must have an existing Adobe Creative Cloud account to use the Adobe Creative Cloud integration. An Adobe Creative Cloud account can be activated through the Rutgers Service Activation Portal as part of the Rutgers enterprise license before accessing Canvas resources.
Table of Contents
•	Access Adobe Creative Cloud in Canvas
•	Create an Adobe Creative Cloud Express Assignment 
o	Sign in and access Adobe Express from Canvas
o	Create an assignment using Adobe Express
•	Grading an Adobe Creative Cloud Express Assignment
Access Adobe Creative Cloud in Canvas
1.	Click on Adobe Creative Cloud (A) in the course navigation. If it is not listed, enable it by managing the course navigation links in course Settings (B).

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	A pop-up window will appear to log in to Adobe Creative Cloud. If your Canvas Default Email Address is in the format netid@rutgers.edu, you will be signed into your Adobe Creative Cloud account automatically. Otherwise, you will be prompted to enter your Adobe email address in the format netid@rutgers.edu, e.g., hr1766@rutgers.edu.

Error! Filename not specified.
Create an Adobe Creative Cloud Express Assignment
Sign in and access Adobe Express from Canvas
1.	Log in to Canvas and navigate to your course.
2.	Select a course, and navigate to Assignments.
3.	You can choose to create a new assignment or edit an existing one. Once the editor opens, scroll down to Submission Type, select External Tool, and find Adobe Express in your course’s External Tools.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Select Adobe Express.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	A pop-up window will appear to log in to Adobe Creative Cloud. If your Canvas Default Email Address is in the format netid@rutgers.edu, you will be signed into your Adobe Creative Cloud account automatically. Otherwise, you will be prompted to enter your Adobe email address in the format netid@rutgers.edu.

Error! Filename not specified.
Create an assignment using Adobe Express
1.	After signing in to Adobe Express from Canvas, a file browser window will appear. All your up-to-date files will be listed if you’ve used Adobe Express previously.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Choose one of your existing Express files to attach as a template for your students. You’ll have two options: 
o	Edit: If you want to make additional edits, you’ll see an option to open up the Adobe Express editor.
o	Attach: Once your file is ready, return to Canvas and select the thumbnail for the file you want to assign to students. Then, select attach.
3.	By attaching your Express file to the Canvas assignment, you create a remixable template that your students can get started with.
4.	Enter the assignment name, add instructions, and update the other assignment fields. Since the Submission Type is set to External Tool, your students will need to turn in via the Canvas option in Adobe Express. This will send their work directly to Canvas for you to grade. 
5.	Click Save.
Grading an Adobe Creative Cloud Express Assignment
1.	Access SpeedGrader from the Canvas assignment or access SpeedGrader from the Canvas Gradebook.
2.	When SpeedGrader loads, the submitted URL is displayed. Click on the URL (A) or click View in a new tab (B).

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	View the submitted Adobe Creative Cloud Express project within SpeedGrader. (How do I grade a website URL submission in SpeedGrader?)

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0016389 Content Management Adobe Creative Cloud in Canvas for Students "
Users must have an existing Rutgers Adobe Creative Cloud account to use the Adobe Creative Cloud integration in Canvas. Users may activate a Rutgers Adobe Creative Cloud account as part of the Rutgers enterprise license through the Rutgers Service Activation portal before accessing Canvas resources.
Table of Contents
•	Access Adobe Creative Cloud in Canvas
•	Submitting an Adobe Creative Cloud Express Canvas Assignment
•	Troublehooting 
o	I see a blank screen when trying to access Adobe Express from Canvas LMS.
o	Turn in doesn’t work.
Access Adobe Creative Cloud in Canvas
1.	Click on Adobe Creative Cloud (A) in the course navigation. If it is not listed, ask your course instructor to enable it by managing the course navigation links in course Settings. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	A pop-up window will appear to log in to Adobe Creative Cloud. If your Canvas Default Email Address is in the format netid@rutgers.edu, you will be signed in to your Adobe Creative Cloud account automatically. Otherwise, you will be prompted to enter your Adobe email address in the format netid@rutgers.edu.

     Error! Filename not specified.
Submitting an Adobe Creative Cloud Express Canvas Assignment
1.	Log in to Canvas and navigate to your course.
2.	Select Assignments or Modules in the left column menu to find your Canvas assignment.
3.	Click on your assignment.
4.	Read the educator's instructions, then select Open in Adobe Express. The assignment opens in Adobe Express web. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Make the required changes and complete the assignment.
6.	To submit the assignment, click Share > Turn in to Canvas. This will automatically submit to the correct assignment in Canvas.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Your assignment is submitted.
Troubleshooting
I see a blank screen when trying to access Adobe Express from Canvas LMS.
Check your browser's pop-up blocker and click Allow to sign in to Adobe. For more information on how to sign in, see Sign in and access Adobe Express from Canvas LMS.
Turn in doesn’t work.
The Turn in to Canvas option is disabled when you are signed in with an account other than the school account. Do the following to ensure you are signed in with the correct account.
1.	In Canvas, navigate to Adobe Express and click your profile icon Error! Filename not specified., in the upper right corner.
2.	Sign out and sign back in with your school credentials and school account.
 For more information on how to sign in, see Sign in and access Adobe Express from Canvas LMS.
" KB0016415 Content Management Cidi Labs DesignPlus – How can I learn about DesginPlus as an instructor? "
Course instructors may benefit from reviewing the following resources provided by Cidilabs:
•	DesignPlus Knowledgebase
•	DesignPlus Training Videos (on-demand videos)
•	DesignPLUS Sidebar Training Resources
•	DesignPLUS Summer School for Educators
" KB0016422 Content Management Google LTI – Getting Started in Canvas "
Sharing Google documents provides flexibility for collaboration, and the Google LTI integration in Canvas simplifies the workflow if users have a Google login associated with their Canvas account. Prior to using Google LTI in Canvas, please review Google LTI – User Account Best Practices.
Table of Contents
•	Google Limitations
•	Authorization
•	Assignments 
o	Cloud Assignments
o	File Upload Assignments
•	Collaborations
•	Modules
•	Rich Content Editor
•	Canvas Mobile App Features
Google Limitations
As part of the Canvas integration, some functionality is limited by Google. Users should be aware of the following limitations by Google in Canvas:
•	Account sharing permissions can prevent sharing outside of an institution’s domain. Google admins can change the sharing permissions to allow documents to be shared outside the institution.
•	Document permissions can prevent files from previewing in a course. Users should ensure that permissions are set correctly for a document before sharing it with others in Canvas.
•	Document owners may not see the email addresses of users who have access to the document.
Authorization
Users can authorize the Google Drive (LTI 1.3) to view their Google Drive account. If authorization to Google Drive is not successful the first time, authorize the application again. Users can only authenticate to one Google Drive account at a time.
Assignments
Cloud Assignments
Instructors can create an embedded online assignment using an external tool. With the Google Assignments (LTI 1.3) external tool, this assignment type creates a template that provides a document copy to the student for assignment submission. Accepted assignment types are Google Docs, Sheets, and Slides.
Notes:
•	Peer reviews cannot be used with External Tool assignments.
•	Rubrics can be added to external tool assignments in Canvas, though the rubric must be added to the assignment before the assignment is set as an external tool assignment. Students can view the rubric in the assignment details page, and instructors can view it by clicking on the Assignment.
File Upload Assignments
Instructors can continue to create regular file upload assignments. However, when an instructor allows file uploads, students can view the Google Drive tab and upload files directly from Google Drive.
Collaborations
Users can collaborate on Google Docs, Sheets, or Slides. The creator can add individual users from the course to participate in the collaboration. Collaborators can be added or removed at any time, but once a user is added to a collaboration, the user always has access to it in the user’s Google Drive folder. Collaborations require a name before they can be saved.
Modules
Google Drive (LTI 1.3) displays as a Modules external tool. Instructors can add links to Google Drive documents as an external tool; this does not create a student-owned copy of the file. 
Rich Content Editor
Google Drive (LTI 1.3) displays a Google Drive icon in the Rich Content Editor. The icon displays everything in a user’s Google Drive account and allows users to display documents as inline links or embed them directly. Students and teachers can view the icon anywhere they can access the Rich Content Editor, such as discussions and pages (as allowed).
If the icon does not appear directly in the toolbar, it is available in the More External Tools drop-down menu.
Canvas Mobile App Features
Currently, the Google Drive (LTI 1.3) integration is very limited in the Canvas app and Canvas Teacher apps from Instructure. Instructors who incorporate cloud assignments into their coursework should inform students that these assignments are not currently supported in the Canvas app.
" KB0016423 Content Management Google LTI – User Account Best Practices "
Many Canvas courses use Collaborations, powered by Google, to share documents and assignments.
The following best practices will ensure you have access to your documents.
•	Add a Google Account email address to your Canvas Account as an additional contact method. 
o	The Rutgers email domain “@rutgers.edu” is not a Google Account; however, “@scarletmail.rutgers.edu” or “@gmail.com” is.
o	You can activate your Scarletmail account at Rutgers by visiting the Rutgers Account Tools Self-Service Portal page and clicking the ‘Service Activation’ link.
o	The Google account does not have to be the default email account, but it must be listed in the user’s profile, and the email address must be confirmed in your Canvas Account Settings.
•	When authorizing Google, users should either sign in to only one Google account or use a private browser tab (incognito). 
•	If you have previously shared a different Gmail account than the one you intend to use or see the Request Access message, you will need to clear your browser’s cache & cookies before authorizing another Google account. 
o	Clearing cache and cookies on MacOS
o	Clearing cache and cookies on Windows
•	If you access your Canvas Collaboration document and are prompted to Request Access, then complete the steps above to associate a Google email Account with your Canvas Account and ask your instructor to re-share the document via Canvas Collaborations.
•	If you access your Canvas Collaboration document and have View Only access to the Canvas Collaboration, check that you are signed into your Rutgers Scarletmail account.
" KB0018424 Content Management How to Share a Reading List Outside of Canvas "
Rutgers Library Reading Lists allows instructors to create and manage course readings from databases licensed by Rutgers University Libraries. This includes digital books, articles, videos, and more. Students can access the Reading List in the course navigation (the left side of their Canvas course). This article demonstrates how to share a Reading list in the event that a student is unable to access it in the Canvas course navigation.
Sharing a Reading List Outside of Canvas
1.	Navigate to your Canvas course.
2.	In the course navigation, click Reading List.
3.	Click the Share list icon above the list.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	A pop-up window with several sharing options will appear. Select the Copy shareable link to list option to copy the link to your device's clipboard.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	To share the URL, paste it either using a keyboard shortcut (Ctrl + V on Windows, Command + V on Mac) or from the command menu after right-clicking on the mouse. You must log in with your Rutgers NetID and password before seeing the Reading List externally. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
Resources
Library Reading List Guides
" KB0016431 Content Management Lab Archives - Pair your Canvas account with Lab Archives for Instructors "
This article is for instructors who have an existing LabArchives account and have created one course with at least one assignment in the LabArchives course notebook.
Instructors and teaching assistants will be prompted once to link their Canvas account to LabArchives.
1.	Log in to Canvas and navigate to the course you would like to connect to LabArchives.
2.	In your Canvas course, click Assignments in the course navigation. Add a new assignment. You may also add an assignment type to Modules.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Please add your assignment details, assignment points, or other assignment-specific information and settings. For Submission Type, choose External Tool from the dropdown menu and click on the Find button.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	A Configure External Tool box will open. Find and select LabArchives.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Please check your email for an email from LabArchives.

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	In the Link Resource from the External Tool window, enter the confirmation code from your email and click Submit.

     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	You will now see a list of your LabArchives assignments and can link them to Canvas.
" KB0012606 Content Management Microsoft OneDrive and Canvas Integration "
The Microsoft OneDrive and Canvas integration enables students and instructors to use their Office 365 accounts in Canvas. This integration allows instructors to embed assignments, create OneDrive collaborations, and view live changes to documents right within Canvas. Students will also be able to use their OneDrive storage in Canvas to submit assignments and collaborate.
Please visit Microsoft's article on “What is OneDrive?” for more information about OneDrive and its use cases.
Table of Contents
•	Getting Started for All Users 
o	Functionality for all users
o	User Account Best Practices in Canvas
o	Add your Rutgers Connect or ScarletMail account to your Canvas profile.
o	Access your OneDrive files in Canvas
o	Share OneDrive files using the Rich Content Editor
o	Enable Canvas Collaboration using a OneDrive file
•	Getting Started for Instructors 
o	Functionality for Instructors
o	Share OneDrive Documents in Canvas Modules
o	Create Cloud Assignments directly from a OneDrive file
•	Getting Started for Students 
o	Functionality for Students
o	Upload OneDrive files for an Assignment Submission
o	Access your OneDrive files in Canvas
o	Limitations
 
Getting Started for All Users
Functionality for all users
Users can:
•	Add their Rutgers Connect or ScarletMail account to their Canvas profile.
•	Access OneDrive from their class.
•	Create links to specific OneDrive files via the Rich Content Editor.
•	Enable Canvas Collaboration using a OneDrive file.
 
User Account Best Practices in Canvas
Many Canvas courses use Collaborations, powered by Office 365, to share documents and assignments. The following best practices will ensure you have access to your documents:
•	Add an Office 365 account email address to your Canvas Account as an additional contact method. 
o	The Rutgers email domain “@rutgers.edu” is not an Office 365 account; however, “@ScarletMail.rutgers.edu” and Rutgers Connect accounts are.
o	You can activate your ScarletMail account at Rutgers by visiting the NetID Activation page and clicking the Service Activation link.
o	ScarletMail account logins will work for both Google and Office 365.
o	In your Canvas profile, the Office 365 account does not have to be the default email account, but it must be listed in the user’s profile, and the email address must be confirmed in your Canvas Account Settings. You may set different notification preferences for additional contact methods so you do not receive duplicate notifications.
•	When authorizing Office 365, users should either sign in to only one Office 365 account or use a private browser tab (incognito). To access an incognito browser from Google Chrome, click on File > New Incognito Window. In Firefox, click on File > New Private Window.
•	If you have previously shared a different Office 365 account than the one you intend to use or see the request access screen, you will need to clear your browser’s cache & cookies on your Mac or Windows computer before authorizing another Office 365 account.
•	If you access your Canvas Collaboration document and are prompted to Request Access, then complete the steps above to associate an Office 365 Account with your Canvas account, then ask your instructor/document owner to reshare the document via Canvas Collaborations.
•	If you access your Canvas Collaboration document and have View Only access to the Canvas Collaboration, please close the Collaboration, navigate to your Canvas Account settings, and in the Approved integrations section, please click on the trash can to remove the token for Office 365 LTI.
Add your Rutgers Connect or ScarletMail account to your Canvas profile.
Before accessing or sharing content in Canvas with a Rutgers Connect or ScarletMail account, users will need to associate a Rutgers Connect or ScarletMail account with their Canvas account.
1.	Click Account in the Canvas sidebar.
2.	Click on Settings.
3.	On the right side of the page, select Add contact method.
4.	Click on the Email tab, enter your Rutgers Connect or ScarletMail account email, and then click on Register Email to associate your Rutgers Connect or ScarletMail account with Canvas. You will be sent a confirmation message. Please log in to your Rutgers Connect or ScarletMail account and click on the link to confirm your email account.
Access your OneDrive files in Canvas
Users can view all their files within their Office 365 (OneDrive) folder through the Course Navigation Menu in Canvas.
1.	On the left-hand navigation menu of a course, click on the Office 365 link. If it is not listed, please enable Office 365 in the course navigation menu or ask your instructor. 
2.	You will be prompted to enter your OneDrive credentials to log in. Click Log in.
3.	Once logged in, you will be able to view your OneDrive files. If students click on this link, they will be prompted to log in to their own OneDrive account. To hide Office 365 in the course navigation, course instructors can manage their course navigation links.
Share OneDrive files using the Rich Content Editor
Instructors and students can link documents from their OneDrive folders anywhere in Canvas using the Canvas Rich Content Editor. Instructors may embed Office 365 documents in Canvas Announcements, Assignments, Discussions, Pages, Quizzes (as instructions and questions), and Syllabus. Students may embed Office 365 documents in discussion and announcement replies, quiz answers, and assignment submissions.
1.	Access the Canvas Rich Content Editor page (found in Pages, Assignments, Discussions, and Syllabus) and click the Apps icon from the toolbar. Select Microsoft Office 365 from the list, or select View All to find Microsoft Office 365.
2.	Select the desired file, then click Attach File. A link to the document will then be created, opening it in a new tab when checked.
Enable Canvas Collaboration using a OneDrive file
Users can create a collaboration in Office 365 using a Microsoft Word, Excel, or PowerPoint file. Users can select individual users, groups, or both for a Canvas Collaboration.
1.	On the left-hand navigation menu of the course, click Collaborations.
2.	Click Start a new collaboration, then choose Office 365 in the drop-down.
3.	Next, choose the type of file you wish to collaborate on (Word, Excel, or PowerPoint), add a document name and description, and add people/groups as collaborators.
4.	When finished, click Save at the bottom of the page.
Getting Started for Instructors
Functionality for Instructors
 Instructors can:
•	Share OneDrive documents in Canvas Modules.
•	Create Cloud assignments based on a OneDrive template file.
•	Access OneDrive from their course navigation.
•	Create links to specific OneDrive files via the Rich Content Editor.
•	Include Office 365 documents in your Modules
•	Allow students to submit assignments via OneDrive.
•	Create and participate in Collaborations.
•	Grade student assignment submissions in SpeedGrader via the Office 365 Viewer.
Share OneDrive Documents in Canvas Modules
Instructors can easily share OneDrive files within the Modules tool in Canvas.
1.	In Course Navigation, click Modules.
2.	Select the plus icon under the desired Module, then choose External Tool from the drop-down. See the How do I add an external tool as a module item? for more information.
3.	In the Add [Item Type] To drop-down menu, select Office 365.
4.	A new dialog will appear. Navigate to the file you want to attach, then click Attach File.
5.	In the Add [Item Type] To drop-down menu, click Add item. 
Create Cloud Assignments directly from a OneDrive file
Instructors can create an online assignment that integrates a document (Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, and Excel) directly from their Office 365 (OneDrive) folder. When students open the assignment, Office 365 will automatically create a copy of the file as the student’s submission. Students will be able to open the document and make necessary changes. The student can then return to the Canvas assignment page and submit the assignment, while keeping a copy in their course OneDrive folder. Also, course instructors can view each student’s document copy in SpeedGrader for grading.
1.	In the left-hand course navigation menu, click Assignments or from Modules Add [item type]: assignments). See How do I add course content as module items? for more information.
2.	Then click Add Assignment.
3.	Enter the assignment name, add a short description, specify the number of points, select the assignment group, and select the grading type.
4.	In the submission type drop-down, select the External Tool option. Then, click on the Find button and select Office 365 Cloud Assignment.
5.	When ready to publish your assignment, click on the Save & Publish button.
Getting Started for Students
Functionality for Students
Students can:
•	Upload OneDrive files for an Assignment Submission.
•	Access OneDrive from their course.
•	Create links to specific OneDrive files via the Rich Content Editor.
•	Access direct links to instructor-provided files.
•	Edit and submit Cloud Assignments.
•	Participate in Collaborations.
Upload OneDrive files for an Assignment Submission
Students can upload files directly from their Office 365 (OneDrive) folder. When clicking on the Submit Assignment button, select the Office 365 tab to link your Office 365 account in Canvas. This will let you select a file from OneDrive and submit it.
Access your OneDrive files in Canvas
Students can view all their files within their Office 365 (OneDrive) folder through the Course Navigation Menu in Canvas, if enabled by your course instructor.
1.	On the left-hand side of the course menu, click Office 365.
2.	Click Login.
3.	In the pop-up window, you will see a Microsoft login screen. Enter your Rutgers Connect or ScarletMail address.
4.	Click Next.
5.	Enter the password you use to access your Rutgers Connect or ScarletMail.
6.	Click Sign in.
7.	When logged in, you will be able to view your OneDrive files directly in Canvas.
 
Limitations
•	Faculty and students must have accounts in the same Microsoft domain. Only Rutgers Connect and ScarletMail accounts may successfully share documents using Office 365.
•	Users with Rutgers Connect accounts may only share documents with other users who have Rutgers Connect or ScarletMail accounts.
•	Document permissions can prevent files from previewing in a course. Users should ensure that permissions are set correctly for a document before sharing it with others in Canvas (anyone in the institution).
•	When displaying Word, Excel, and PowerPoint files, files with font conflicts will not display. Best practice is to use standard Microsoft fonts in all documents.
" KB0016719 Core and Distribution Network Rutgers IPTV Channel Lineup "
Available channels
•	A&E
•	ACC Network
•	Accuweather
•	AMC
•	BBC America
•	BETBloomberg TV
•	Bravo
•	BTN 1
•	BTN 2
•	Cartoon Network
•	CBS Sports Network
•	CMT
•	CNBC
•	CNN
•	Comedy Central
•	Cooking Channel
•	Discovery
•	Disney Channel
•	Disney JR
•	E!
•	ESPN
•	ESPN2
•	ESPNEWS
•	ESPNU
•	Food Network
•	Fox Business Network
•	Fox News Channel
•	FS1
•	FS2
•	FX
•	Galavisión
•	GOLF Channel
•	GSN
•	Hallmark Channel
•	HGTV
•	History
•	Lifetime
•	Magnolia
•	Nat Geo Wild
•	MLB Network
•	MotorTrend 
•	MSG
•	MSG+
•	MSNBC
•	MTV
•	MTV Classic 
•	MTV2
•	NASA TV
•	National Geographic 
•	NBA TV
•	NFL Network
•	NHL Network
•	Nick JR
•	Nickelodeon
•	OWN
•	Paramount Network
•	Science
•	SEC Network
•	SNY
•	Syfy
•	TBS
•	Tennis Channel
•	The Weather Channel
•	TLC
•	TNT
•	Travel Channel
•	truTV
•	TV Land
•	Univision
•	USA Network
•	VH1
•	WE TV
•	WNET PBS 
•	WPIX CW 
•	WWOR-TV MY N
•	YES Network 
Additional local channels
Rutgers New Brunswick and Newark
•	WABC-TV ABC 
•	WCBS-TV CBS 
•	WNBC-TV 
•	WNYW FOX 
Rutgers Camden
•	Camden ABC
•	Camden CBS
•	Camden Fox
•	Camden NBC
" KB0018362 Desk Phone Support Call forwarding on Cisco phones "
All VoIP telephone users can forward their desk phones to a remote number of their choice in North America. Detailed training instructions for your phone can be found in the Using Cisco Phones article. Please note you must be on the Rutgers Network (or VPN) to access the training.
If you are not a Rutgers VoIP customer, please contact the Voice help desk by opening a ticket in the Voice Services Request Tool to discuss your available options.
Forward all calls, via the online portal
You must be on the Rutgers Network (or VPN) in order to access the Cisco Unified Communications Self-Care Portal.
1.	Navigate to the Cisco Unified Communications Self Care Portal 
2.	Login using your credentials.
3.	From the Voice Tab Select Call Forwarding
4.	Check Forward all calls to: box and enter the call forward target number exactly as you would dial it from your phone.
5.	Please note that there are advanced features available.
6.	Once you have completed entering your data click Save to enable the Call Forward.
Call forward can be turned off by simply deselecting the “Forward all calls to:” box and clicking Save.
Forward All Calls at the Phone
“Forward All” allows you to forward calls on your phone to another number.
1.	Press the Forward All softkey.
2.	Then enter the call forward target phone number exactly as you would dial it from your phone.
3.	To verify that your calls are forwarded, look for the “Forward All” icon in the line label, and the forwarding information in the header.
Cancel Call Forwarding at the Phone
Press the Forward Off softkey.
Voicemails to Email (.wav)
Another option that supports working remotely is having voicemails sent to your email. Some of the phone systems support this feature. Please submit a voice ticket to enable this feature. For more information, follow the instructions on How to access your voicemail remotely.
" KB0018361 Desk Phone Support Cisco VOIP Headsets "
Contact CallOneOnline (8:00 AM to 5:00 PM EST) for assistance with headset purchases via marketplace:
Heather Dull | Senior Account Executive 
Call One, Inc | Hello Direct
400 Imperial Blvd. Cape Canaveral, Fl 32920
Phone: (800) 435-5634
Email: hdull@calloneonline.com
Website: CallOneInc | HelloDirect 
Cisco Compatible Headsets With Rutgers Pricing
Available headsets and their price
Item	Unit Price
CIS-CP-HS-W-531-RJ-003 
Cisco 531 Corded Monaural Headset with QD, Coiled RJ Cable	$125
CIS-CP-HS-W-532-RJ-003 
Cisco 532 Corded Binaural Headset with QD, Coiled RJ Cable	$141
CIS-CP-HS-W-531-USBA-003 
Cisco 531 Corded Monaural Headset with USB Headset Adapter	$187
CIS-CP-HS-W-532-USBA-003 
Cisco 532 Binaural Corded USB Headset	$202
CIS-CP-HS-WL-561-M-US-001 
Cisco 561 Monaural, O-T-H, Wireless Bluetooth Headset(Muliti-Base)	$329
CIS-CP-HS-WL-562-M-US-001 
Cisco 562 Binaural, O-T-H, Wireless Bluetooth Headset (Muliti-Base)	$359
CIS-CP-HS-WL-561-S-US-001 
Cisco 561 Monaural, O-T-H, Wireless Headset	$275
CIS-CP-HS-WL-562-S-US-001 
Cisco 562 Binaural, O-T-H, Wireless Headset	$305
" KB0014457 Desk Phone Support Speed dialing and campus dialing KB0014453 Desk Phone Support Using Cisco phones KB0014456 Desk Phone Support Using Cisco Unity Voicemail KB0015261 Desktop and Mobile Device Support Change your AirDrop settings to prevent unsolicited images and files "
AirDrop is a fast and convenient way to share photos, videos, and files with other Apple device users. It does so wirelessly via Bluetooth and Wi-Fi, which makes it very easy to use, but also can leave your device exposed to potentially unsolicited images and files. By design, it will display a preview of the item before you agree to receive it or reject it. You will have to view every item sent to you by anyone who has permission to do so and is within range of your device, which makes it an easy target for unwanted images and files. 
There are two active permission settings for AirDrop:
•	You can set it to accept shares from anyone.
•	Or only from people in your contacts who are saved.
Alternatively, you can completely turn off the feature. You can use these settings to ensure you don't become the unwitting victim of an unsolicited AirDrop share. It should be turned off completely or limited to Contacts Only whenever possible.
See Apple’s instructions on changing your AirDrop settings on your iPhone/iPad, or on a Mac.
" KB0012471 Desktop and Mobile Device Support Clearing cache and cookies on Android "
This page provides instructions on how to clear cache and cookies on Android.
Mozilla Firefox
1.	On the top right, select Menu (three dots in a vertical line).
2.	Select Settings.
3.	Select Delete browsing data.
4.	Ensure Cookies and site data, and Cached images and files are selected.
5.	Click Delete browsing data.
Google Chrome
1.	On the right side of the Chrome window, select More (three dots in a vertical line).
2.	Select Delete Browsing Data.  
1.	Click More Options. 
2.	For Time Range, select All Time.
3.	For types of Browsing Data, ensure Cookies, site data, and Cached images and files are selected. 
3.	Click Delete Data.
Samsung Internet
1.	Select the Menu icon (three dots in a vertical line).
2.	Click Settings.
3.	Select Personal browsing data.
4.	Select Delete browsing data.
5.	Ensure Cached images and files, and Cookies and site data are selected.
6.	Click Delete data.
" KB0012472 Desktop and Mobile Device Support Clearing cache and cookies on iOS "
This page provides instructions on how to clear cache and cookies on iOS.
Apple Safari
1.	Open the Settings app.
2.	Go to Apps > Safari.
3.	Click Clear History and Website Data. 
4.	Change the Timeframe to All history.  
5.	Click Clear History. 
Google Chrome
1.	On the right side of the Chrome window, click More (...)
2.	Select Delete Browsing Data.  
1.	A pop-up window will appear, allowing you to set a duration and select the browsing data you want to delete.
2.	For Time Range, select All Time.
3.	For Browsing Data, ensure Cookies, and site data, and Cached images and files are selected. 
3.	Click Confirm.
4.	Click Delete Data.
" KB0012473 Desktop and Mobile Device Support Clearing cache and cookies on MacOS "
This page provides instructions on how to clear cache and cookies on macOS.
Google Chrome
1.	Open Google Chrome.
2.	In the top right side of the Chrome window, click the menu button (three dots in a vertical line).
3.	In the drop-down menu, click Delete browsing data…
4.	Select All time from the dropdown menu at the top.
5.	Check the boxes next to Cookies and other site data and Cached images and files (make sure nothing you'd like to keep is selected).
6.	Click Clear data.
Mozilla Firefox
1.	Click the menu icon in the top right corner of the window (three horizontal lines).
2.	Select the Privacy & Security panel.
3.	In the Cookies and Site Data section, click Clear Data…
4.	In the dropdown next to When, choose Everything.
5.	Ensure Cookies and site data, and Temporary cached files and pages are checked. 
6.	Click Clear. 
Safari
1.	In the top menu, navigate to Safari, then Settings.
2.	Click Privacy.
3.	Click Manage Website Data...
4.	At the bottom of the list that appears, click Remove All.
5.	Confirm the deletion.
" KB0012474 Desktop and Mobile Device Support Clearing cache and cookies on Windows "
This page provides instructions on how to clear cache and cookies on Windows.
Google Chrome
1.	Open Google Chrome.
2.	In the top right side of the Chrome window, click the menu button (three dots in a vertical line).
3.	In the drop-down menu, click Delete browsing data…
4.	Select All time from the dropdown menu at the top.
5.	Check the boxes next to Cookies and other site data and Cached images and files (make sure nothing you'd like to keep is selected).
6.	Click Clear data.
Microsoft Edge
1.	In the top right, click more options ... (three horizontal dots). 
2.	Select Settings  > Privacy, search, and services.
3.	Select Clear browsing data, then select Choose what to clear next to Clear browsing data now.
4.	Under Time range, choose All Time.
5.	Ensure Cookies and other site data, and Cached images and files are selected. 
6.	Select Clear now.
Mozilla Firefox
1.	Click the menu icon in the top right corner of the window (three horizontal lines).
2.	Select the Privacy & Security panel.
3.	In the Cookies and Site Data section, click Clear Data…
4.	In the dropdown next to When, choose Everything.
5.	Ensure Cookies and site data, and Temporary cached files and pages are checked. 
6.	Click Clear. 
" KB0018773 Desktop and Mobile Device Support Disable Wired AutoConfig in Windows "
Follow these instructions to stop and disable the Wired Autoconfig service on a Windows computer. 
1.	Open the Run program on your computer by typing "Run" into the Windows search bar, then selecting it. Or press (Windows Key + R) to open it. 
2.	Type “services.msc” and click OK. 

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	 Look for “Wired AutoConfig” and Stop the service if it is running by right-clicking it and clicking Stop. 

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Right-click on it again and select Properties. 

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Change the Startup Type to Disabled, to keep it from turning on again after a computer restart. 
6.	Click OK. 
" KB0012644 Desktop and Mobile Device Support Retrieving MAC Addresses "
Providing your MAC addresses may be necessary to troubleshoot wired and wireless issues properly or to sign up for certain services. Locating a device's MAC address is dependent on its manufacturer. Below is a list of commonly used devices and instructions for finding their MAC addresses.
*An important note is that the wired MAC address may sometimes be referred to as the RJ45 MAC address.
MacOS
1.	Open System Preferences > Network
2.	Select Ethernet or Wi-Fi depending on connection type, then click Advanced
3.	Select the Hardware tab; it will be listed as MAC Address
Windows
1.	Run command prompt (cmd)
2.	Type ipconfig/all and select Enter (on the keyboard)
3.	Scroll down to Ethernet or Wireless adapters
4.	It will be listed as Physical Address
Chromebooks
1.	If you haven't yet, sign in to your Chromebook.
2.	At the bottom right, select the time.
3.	Select the Wi-Fi network Error! Filename not specified..
4.	At the top of the box, select Information Error! Filename not specified..
5.	You'll see your Chromebook's IP address and IPv6 address. Your MAC address is labeled "Wi-Fi."
Alternate method for Windows 10
1.	Open Settings from the Start menu
2.	Select Network and Internet
3.	Select View your network properties
4.	The MAC address is listed as Physical Address (MAC)
PlayStation 4
1.	On the main menu, navigate to Settings.
2.	Click Network.
3.	Navigate to View Connection Status.
4.	Here you will see the Wifi MAC Address and the Ethernet MAC Address.
5.	For 802.1x MAC Address Bypass, we will need the Ethernet MAC Address.
Xbox One
1.	Open the Guide
2.	Select Settings
3.	Select Network
4.	Select Advanced Settings
5.	The addresses should be labeled Wired MAC and Wireless MAC
Apple TV
1.	Select Settings
2.	Select General
3.	Select Network
4.	The MAC address will be listed as Ethernet Address
Android TV
1.	Select Settings
2.	Select Network
3.	Select Status
4.	The MAC Address will be listed here
Roku
1.	The MAC address is printed on the bottom or back of the Roku player
2.	Alternatively, from the Roku home screen, select Settings > Network > Wired (Ethernet)
3.	Secret Menu option for Roku 3 or later (use the following key combination): Home, Home, Home, Home, Home, FF, FF, FF, RW, RW
Amazon Fire Stick
1.	From the Main Menu, go to Settings
2.	Select System
3.	Go to About
4.	Toggle down to Network. Look for the MAC Address (Wi-Fi) on the right
Nintendo Switch
1.	Select System Settings from the home menu.
2.	Scroll down through the menu and select Internet.
3.	The MAC address will be listed under System MAC Address.
4.	Note: If you want to connect via an Ethernet cable, you will need a certified Nintendo adapter. If you have this, then you will need to use the adapter's MAC address rather than the switch's MAC address. The easiest way to get the MAC address (if it is not hardcoded into the adapter) is to have the user plug it into a Windows machine. Go to the command prompt and type ipconfig/all, scroll down until you see the adapter, and the MAC address should be listed as the physical address.
" KB0016382 Desktop and Mobile Device Support What do I do if I need my new computer set up in my Camden office? "
The computers provided to full-time faculty and staff from 2020 onward are typically laptops with USB-C or Thunderbolt docking stations. Information Technology has created guides to help people set up laptops and docks in their offices or at home. Please contact the Camden IT Help Desk for information about the setup guides or to request an appointment for in-office assistance.
The Camden Help Desk can be reached via email at help@camden.rutgers.edu or by phone at 856-225-6274.
For New Brunswick or Newark support, please contact your local Help Desk. 
" KB0018501 Desktop and Mobile Device Support Windows 10 End of Life (EOL) & Upgrade to Windows 11 - FAQ "
Microsoft has announced the official End of Life (EOL) date for Windows 10 as October 14, 2025. After this date, devices running Windows 10 will no longer receive security updates or technical support from Microsoft. Rutgers University is preparing for this transition and has developed a plan to upgrade eligible devices to Windows 11.
This FAQ is intended to provide guidance for faculty, staff, and students regarding the upcoming changes.
Table of Contents
•	General Windows 10 End of Life 
o	When is Windows 10 reaching end of life?
o	What does "end of life" mean for Windows 10?
o	Why is Microsoft ending support for Windows 10?
o	What happens if I continue using Windows 10 after the end-of-life date?
o	Is there any way to extend Windows 10 support?
•	Upgrade to Windows 11 
o	Am I required to upgrade to Windows 11?
o	How do I know if my computer can run Windows 11?
o	What are the minimum hardware requirements for Windows 11?
o	Will I lose my files or programs during the upgrade?
o	Can I upgrade remotely?
o	Are there any known compatibility issues with Rutgers software?
•	University-Managed Devices 
o	Will Rutgers upgrade university devices automatically?
o	Who do I contact for help upgrading my Rutgers-owned device?
o	Can I delay the upgrade?
o	Will the upgrade be done through KACE, or another tool?
•	Personally-Owned Devices (BYOD) 
o	Does this affect my personal computer?
o	Is Windows 11 free?
o	Will Extended Security Updates (ESU) be available for personal devices? 
•	Security and Compliance 
o	Is it a security risk to stay on Windows 10?
o	Will outdated devices be blocked from the Rutgers network?
o	How does this relate to university compliance?
•	IT Administrators 
o	As the IT Administrator for my department, how do I deploy the upgrade through KACE? 
•	Additional Help
General Windows 10 End of Life
When is Windows 10 reaching end of life?
Microsoft will officially end support for Windows 10 on October 14, 2025.
What does "end of life" mean for Windows 10?
It means Microsoft will no longer provide security updates, bug fixes, or technical support. This could expose devices to security vulnerabilities.
Why is Microsoft ending support for Windows 10?
Microsoft follows a product lifecycle policy. Windows 10 was released in 2015 and is being phased out in favor of Windows 11, which offers improved performance, security, and support for modern hardware.
What happens if I continue using Windows 10 after the end-of-life date?
Your device will still work, but it will no longer receive security updates, leaving it vulnerable to threats. Some university systems may eventually block unsupported operating systems from the network.
Is there any way to extend Windows 10 support?
Windows 10 Extended Security Updates (ESU) will be available at no cost for university-owned devices in the fall. In the meantime, it's strongly recommended to upgrade any devices capable of running Windows 11 to ensure continued support and access to the latest features and security updates.
Upgrade to Windows 11
Am I required to upgrade to Windows 11?
All university-managed Windows devices must be upgraded or install the ESU patch before the EOL deadline to ensure compliance and security.
How do I know if my computer can run Windows 11?
You can check compatibility using the PC Health Check Tool. Most devices from 2019 onward are compatible.
What are the minimum hardware requirements for Windows 11?
Requirements include a compatible 64-bit CPU, 4GB RAM, 64GB storage, TPM 2.0, Secure Boot, and UEFI firmware.
Will I lose my files or programs during the upgrade?
No, the upgrade is designed to retain your files and installed applications. However, it is recommended to back up your data before proceeding.
Can I upgrade remotely?
Yes. The upgrade can be delivered through managed tools like KACE.
Are there any known compatibility issues with Rutgers software?
Most supported university software is compatible. If you rely on niche or lab-specific tools, please contact your department's IT support to verify compatibility.
University-Managed Devices
Will Rutgers upgrade university devices automatically?
Yes. The upgrade will be scheduled by your local IT support team. You may receive notifications or prompts depending on the configuration.
Who do I contact for help upgrading my Rutgers-owned device?
Contact your department's IT support or submit a request through the IT Help Portal.
Can I delay the upgrade?
Short-term deferrals may be granted for critical use cases. Contact your department's IT support for exceptions.
Will the upgrade be done through KACE, or another tool?
Most upgrades will be handled via KACE, depending on your device's management group.
Personally-Owned Devices (BYOD)
Does this affect my personal computer?
Not directly. However, you are encouraged to upgrade to Windows 11 to maintain a secure and supported environment.
Is Windows 11 free?
Yes, if you have a valid Windows 10 license on your device. You can upgrade through Microsoft directly. 
Will Extended Security Updates (ESU) be available for personal devices?
No. ESU cannot be licensed for personal use. 
Security and Compliance
Is it a security risk to stay on Windows 10?
Yes. Devices that no longer receive security updates are highly vulnerable to malware and unauthorized access.
Will outdated devices be blocked from the Rutgers network?
This may happen post-EOL. Policies are under review and will be communicated closer to the cutoff date.
How does this relate to university compliance?
Using unsupported software violates Rutgers IT security standards. Upgrading to Windows 11 ensures compliance with data protection and cybersecurity policies.
IT Administrators
As the IT Administrator for my department, how do I deploy the upgrade through KACE? 
Follow the guide for updating Windows features through KACE. 
Additional Help
If you have questions not listed here, or you need help planning your upgrade, please contact your department's IT support or submit a ticket on the IT Help Portal.  
" KB0017272 Digital Accessibility IT Accessibility Purchasing Process "
For all purchases with the commodity code IT Software, purchasers must submit the Accessibility Purchasing Form.
Immediately after you submit this form, you will receive a copy of your EIT Acknowledgement Agreement. This states that you understand your purchase may not be accessible and will work with the appropriate University units should an individual with a disability require an alternate means of accessing the application.
Within 5-10 business days after submitting the form, the Office of Information Technology Accessibility (OITA) will review your request and place it into one of four categories based on several factors, including overall risk to the University.
If it falls into one of these 3 categories, your purchase is approved.
•	Low - No Audit
•	Medium - No Audit
•	High -  Full Audit
If it falls into this category, your purchase is on hold:
•	High - Purchase on hold
If the exposure level to the University is low, you may attach the email you received to the requisition and proceed with the purchase. No further action will be needed.
If the exposure level is found to be high, in most cases the purchase will proceed under the condition that a full audit by OITA be conducted before the next renewal. The email you receive will contain an outline of all your next steps.
The OITA office reserves the right to stop any purchase if we find the risk level too high or if an individual with a disability is likely to be negatively impacted by the purchase.
" KB0017157 Digital Accessibility Rutgers Digital Accessibility Policies "
To provide more accessible services, Rutgers has instituted a Web Accessibility policy and is generating an Online Course Accessibility policy. These policies encompass the regulatory principles the university seeks to adhere to to increase accessibility at Rutgers.
70.1.5 World Wide Web Accessibility Policy (PDF)
The Rutgers World Wide Web Accessibility Policy defines the standards for the accessibility and usability of web-based information and services to create an inclusive environment for students, faculty, and staff to invest in the usability of our web resources and to proactively comply with federal regulations and laws. All web pages newly created, redesigned, or modified by the University, any of its units, or any of its faculty must comply with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1 Level AA. For more information on conformance and success criteria for the guidelines, see How to Meet WCAG (Quick Reference).
80.1.7 Website Policy (PDF)
The Rutgers Website Policy governs all Rutgers websites. This policy explains how websites must behave regarding educational materials, advertising, fundraising, links, administration, and related matters to ensure our web presence is available to the widest possible audience and is responsibly maintained.
For a full list of all University policies, please visit our University Policy Library.
" KB0016804 Digital Accessibility Rutgers Minimum Digital Accessibility Standards "
Rutgers is committed to ensuring that everyone in our Rutgers family can access all the tools, resources, and experiences Rutgers has to offer. We remain actively engaged with our campus partners, both internally and externally, to ensure compliance with all federal, state, and local laws. This includes but is not limited to: The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act.
These standards operate in conjunction with the following policies here at Rutgers:
70.1.5- World Wide Web Accessibility Policy
Web Standards
All web content must meet the minimum WCAG 2.1 AA threshold.  More information on the W3Cs Web Content Accessibility Guidelines can be found on their site.
Additional Training is offered through OITA and can be booked via appointment. Please email accessibility-support@rutgers.edu to set up a training.
Document Standards
All documents (PDFs, DOCX, PPTX, etc.) should conform to the WCAG standard above, where applicable. While WCAG was written specifically for web content, its tenets and foundations can be applied to all document types.
" KB0017276 Digital Accessibility Understanding an IT Accessibility Review "
We recommend you read the understanding WCAG article before reading this document.
Voluntary Product Accessibility Template (VPAT)
Accessibility reviews can take many forms for a company; the most common is a VPAT. This document reports the extent to which the product meets each WCAG Conformance Standard.
These are completed either by the company or an outside agency. In general, third-party companies (unbiased) like Deque or Level Access provide honest, high-quality reviews. That is preferred over internal reviews, which tend to be skewed towards higher ratings.
The ratings used to describe the Conformance Levels are defined as follows:
•	Supports: The product's functionality has at least one method that meets the criterion without known defects or meets with equivalent facilitation.
•	Partially Supports: Some of the product's functionality does not meet the criterion.
•	Does Not Support: Most product functionality does not meet the criterion.
•	Not Applicable: The criterion is not relevant to the product.
•	Not Evaluated: The product has not been evaluated against the criterion. This can be used only in WCAG 2.0 Level AAA.
Usability Testing
Sometimes also referred to as User Experience testing, in the context of accessibility, this measures how easily a person can navigate and interact with a website using their assistive technology. In most cases, these tests are conducted using a screen reader to measure how easy it is to use the site with a keyboard only.
Accessibility Roadmaps
Companies need to continually review their software to ensure it remains usable for individuals with disabilities and remains compliant with WCAG standards. When issues are found, those should be put onto a ‘roadmap’. This document outlines the issue and a timeline for when it will be fixed.
" KB0017158 Digital Accessibility Understanding Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) "
The Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) are the prevailing authority on accessibility standards. It is developed in collaboration with individuals and organizations worldwide, with the goal of creating a universally accepted technical standard for web accessibility.
5 things to know about WCAG
1.	The Web Content Accessibility Guidelines were created by a group called the W3C. It is one of several guidelines that outline the requirements for making the web accessible. There are other guidelines for making browsers/browser extensions accessible, content creation tools like WordPress accessible, as well as specifications for accessible audio and video, to name a few examples. WCAG is one piece of a larger puzzle.
2.	WCAG is divided into 4 Principles (which you can think of as categories): 
o	Perceivable: Users must be able to perceive the information being presented (it can't be invisible to all of their senses).
o	Operable: Users must be able to operate the interface (the interface cannot require interaction that a user cannot perform).
o	Understandable: Users must be able to understand the information and the user interface (its content and operation cannot be beyond their understanding).
o	Robust: Users must be able to access the content as technologies advance (as technologies and user agents evolve, the content should remain accessible).
3.	Within those Principles, there are guidelines and conformance standards. For example, we can imagine a deaf or hard-of-hearing individual who needs to listen to a recorded lecture. To meet the principle of being perceivable, there must be an alternate means for the user to obtain that information. In this case, the conformance standard requires us to provide a text alternative, such as captions or a transcript.
4.	WCAG uses a good, better, best model, meaning each standard is assigned a grade. To conform to the better standards (also known as AA), you need to conform to all the standards graded under good (level A) as well as all those graded as better (level AA). 
5.	WCAG is constantly evolving. As the internet and the tools we use evolve, so must the guidelines. Often, you'll hear a version number, i.e., WCAG 2.0, to indicate which version your company has adopted as its standard.
See our minimum digital accessibility standards to learn more about the WCAG version Rutgers has adopted.
To learn more about WCAG, check out these sites:
•	Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) Overview by W3C WAI
•	Understanding the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines by Mozilla
•	Web Content Accessibility Guidelines – What Is WCAG? by Essential Accessibility
" KB0015093 Digital Classroom Services RUN: Classroom Wireless Success Steps "
University-supported classrooms at RU-N have the wireless infrastructure necessary to provide excellent WiFi coverage for all students and faculty. However, even the best wireless network will have its performance impacted by the use and configuration of students' devices. 
Instructors and their students can take steps to minimize connectivity issues during the in-class administration of assessments and other instructional activities that depend on the wireless network (e.g., class polls). 
Classroom Wireless Success Steps before in-class assessment or activity: 
1.	Faculty should notify students that they will need a laptop or tablet for the course, and students need to configure their devices to use the RUWireless Secure network.? If students have any issues, they should contact the RUN-IT Service Center.
2.	Students should ensure they can successfully connect to RUWireless Secure BEFORE the day of the exam or activity. The RUWireless Guest network has bandwidth and security restrictions that negatively impact students using that network in the classrooms.
3.	Students must ensure their computer's operating system is up to date.
4.	If faculty plan to use the classroom wireless for an assessment, they should schedule a practice session before the actual assessment so that students can test and verify their devices. 
Classroom Wireless Success Steps during an exam or activity: 
1.	Ask students to close all other programs and applications on their devices while taking the exam.
2.	Do not ask students to download software or other large files that may be associated with the exam at the same time as the exam. Preferably, this would be done ahead of the exam.
3.	Have a paper version of the assessment available if a student has an issue with their device during the exam. 
 For more information about troubleshooting Rutgers University's wireless connectivity, please refer to the guide on how to connect to RUWireless Secure. 
 You can also contact the RUN-IT Service Center.
" KB0012496 Docusign Support "DocuSign system status, alert messages, and release notes" "
DocuSign provides the following for users to check system status and alerts: Current system status
When viewing DocuSign’s system status and alert messages, please note that your demo site is hosted on DocuSign’s North America / DEMO environment, and your production site is on their North America / NA2 environment.
You can also view the Release Notes. They are released monthly, but the exact date varies. There is no subscription link for the release notes mailing list. Please provide the EDS team with your email addresses if you want to be added.
" KB0012502 Eduroam Eduroam manual installation "
Manual Configuration Settings for Eduroam
Layer 2 Mode/Security	WPA2 Enterprise
Encryption	AES CCMP
EAP TYPE / Authentication	TTLS
Inner Authentication	PAP
CA Certificate	USERTrust RSA Certificate Authority
Domain	Rutgers.edu
Outer Identity / Username	[Your Rutgers NetID]@rutgers.edu
SSID	Eduroam
Trusted Server	*.ruw.rutgers.edu
SHA1 Fingerprint	02FAF3E291435468607857694DF5E45B68851868
It is also recommended that you enable options to Validate Server Certificate and Verify Server Name if your client allows.
" KB0012573 Eduroam Instructions for accessing eduroam at Rutgers for visitors "
Visitors from eduroam member institutions can access the eduroam wireless network throughout the Rutgers campus. The configuration process for your device will vary, and specific instructions on connecting to eduroam will be provided by your home institution.
If you are having problems connecting to eduroam on the Rutgers campus, please contact the IT staff at your home institution.
Visitors from eduroam participating institutions must follow the policies and guidelines of their home institutions.
Once you have installed eduroam on your device, you can connect at Rutgers University by:
1.	Select the eduroam wireless network in your device’s wireless connection settings.
2.	Signing in with your eduroam credentials.
" KB0012574 Eduroam Instructions for installing eduroam "
eduroam enables all Rutgers University students, faculty, staff, and emeriti to utilize free and secure wireless service when visiting an eduroam (education roaming) member university, and allows visitors from member universities to access the service when visiting Rutgers. Most Big 10 schools are participating members of the eduroam consortium. Additionally, numerous other universities, research centers, and libraries worldwide are members.
The eduroam network is available at participating institutions in over 106 territories worldwide. A full list of participating institutions in the US can be found on the eduroam-US web page. To use eduroam, you will need a WiFi (802.11b/g/n) enabled device such as a laptop, tablet, or smartphone.
1.	Rutgers University faculty, staff, students, and emeriti must download the eduroam installer. 
2.	Run the installer and provide your NetID and NetID password when prompted. 
3.	Test connecting to the eduroam network while at Rutgers. 
4.	Afterward, at another institution, you can select the eduroam wireless network on your device’s wireless connection settings and log in using the following credentials: 
o	Username = NetID@rutgers.edu
o	Password = NetID password
Tips
•	Once you have used the installer to configure your device, you can connect to wireless networks named "eduroam" at any participating institution. Before you leave Rutgers, test that you have configured your device correctly by attempting to connect to the eduroam network while on the Rutgers campus with your NetID in the form of NetID@rutgers.edu and your NetID password.
•	If you are having trouble configuring your device for eduroam or connecting to eduroam while traveling to another institution, contact your local computing Help Desk. Note that the IT personnel at the institution you are visiting will not be able to assist you with authentication issues that may prevent you from accessing eduroam.
Security reminders while traveling
•	When visiting other institutions, members of the Rutgers community must adhere to the guidelines outlined in the Rutgers Acceptable Use Policy.
•	Use Rutgers VPN on your laptop, smartphone, or tablet to create an encrypted connection to University resources.
•	Install antivirus software on your devices.
•	Assume that any networks or devices other than your own are insecure. Remember that eduroam will never show a webpage asking for your username and/or password. This is a sign that someone is attempting to hijack your password – do not use any network that requests this information.
Information to complete a manual installation
See the manual configuration settings for eduroam.
" KB0012829 Eduroam FAQs Eduroam FAQs "
For Eduroam Frequently Asked Questions, please visit Eduroam's website.
" KB0012486 Email and Collaboration Services Creating an email alias for your Rutgers email address "
To create an email alias for your Rutgers email address, please follow the steps below:
1.	Navigate to the Manage Email Addresses Page.
2.	Under Personalized Email Addresses, you may create an email alias and click Create New Personalized Email Address to add the alias.
After completing the steps above, you should be able to receive emails sent to your alias in the accounts listed under the Delivery Addresses for Personalized Email Addresses section on that page.
" KB0018208 Email and Collaboration Services Daily Email Sending Limits "
Starting December 11, 2024, the daily sending limit for individual user accounts in both Rutgers Connect and ScarletMail will be set to 1,000 messages per person, irrespective of the email's destination. The number of emails sent daily is calculated based on a rolling 24-hour period, not a calendar day, where each recipient counts as one email towards the limit. On ScarletMail, there is an additional restriction that the total number of recipients in the To, CC, and BCC fields is limited to 500 per email.  
The daily limit only applies to an individual's account and does not apply to emails sent from a distribution list or 365 Group. Additionally, when sending an email to a distribution list address with multiple recipients, it will only count as one email towards the daily sending limit. 
When sending an email from a shared mailbox, you must open the shared mailbox directly, since simply changing the "From" address while in your personal email account still counts against your daily limit. Follow the instructions on how to open the shared mailbox in a separate browser window and how to send emails from the shared mailbox.
This adjustment is necessary due to recent increases in email attacks. By lowering the sending limits and reducing the number of recipients per email, Rutgers can better protect against abuse and support a secure environment. 
Approved bulk mailer services like Rutgers Automated Mass-Mailing Service (RAMS) and Mailman will not be affected and should be utilized for individuals wanting to email a large audience. Contact your Departmental IT Support for additional guidance on your bulk emailing options. 
" KB0018704 Email and Collaboration Services "Data classification and AI matrix – comparing ChatGPT, Copilot, and Gemini" "
The table describes which data types can be processed on each Rutgers AI platform. Review the Rutgers guidance on the use of AI and consult with your IT staff or the OIT Help Desk for questions on what is permissible.
IMPORTANT: These solutions are not appropriate for storing, processing, or sharing most types of institutional data classified as “Critical.” Review the Rutgers data classification and security matrix (appendix located on Rutgers Policy 70.1.2 "Information Classification") for more information on the types of information that are acceptable. 
Pursuant to Rutgers Policy 70.1.6, Rutgers business information or data, such as internal memos, planning documents, etc, should be stored and processed on Rutgers Connect, not on ScarletApps. 
Key: ? = Yes, X = No, ? = Link to additional info
Data classification per AI service 
Data *	Rutgers ChatGPT Edu (paid subscription)	Microsoft Copilot (Rutgers Connect)	Google Gemini  and NotebookLM (ScarletApps)
Public	?	?	?
Internal	?	?	?
Course materials shared with students and instructors	?	?	?
Materials intended for publication/shared on non-password protected Rutgers websites	?	?	?
Licensed software	?	?	X
NetID usernames/student ID numbers/employee numbers	?	?	X
Internal memos and planning documents	?	?	X
Student records (“FERPA”)	?	?	X
Copyrightable and patentable information related to research	?	?	?¹
Social security numbers, driver's license numbers, or passport numbers	?	?	X
Research materials containing IRB-prohibited data	?²	?²	X
Protected Health Care Information (“PHI”)	?³	?³	X
Library circulation or use records **	??	??	X
Proprietary information covered under contract or non-disclosure agreements ***	??	??	??
Institutional Infrastructure (gas & electrical maps, etc.)	??	??	??
US Government Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI)	??	??	X
Bank accounts & Financial Data	??	??	X
HI-TRUST certified departments	X	X	X
Login credentials (i.e. username AND password)	X	X	X
Police records	X	X	X
Credit/debit card numbers	X	X	X
International Traffic in Arms Regulation (ITAR)	X	X	X
US Government Classified	X	X	X
NIST 800-53 (FISMA)	X	X	X
 
NOTE: Items marked with a “?“ either have special conditions attached to the storage of this type of data or approval is required before the listed type of data can be used in the service.

¹ Under law, the owner of a copyrighted work is generally the individual or company that created the work. In research, an author can use copyrighted work if they credit the owner or source. Similarly, a patent places protective rights on intellectual property to protect inventions. Certain terms apply to the use of copyrighted or patented works in AI tools. Please see your respective IT support professional or the help desk for verification.

² With the spread of computer and internet-based research involving human participants, individuals must find a way to address unforeseen problems and risks. Due to the sensitive nature of data processing (especially by AI), storage, backup, and destruction, you must consult with your respective department head before using content that is subject to IRB approval.

³ PHI can be processed using this service. Protected health information (PHI) pertains to any personally identifiable information (PII) collected by a healthcare agency. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) seeks to protect the privacy rights of individuals with regard to healthcare.  It’s important to check with your IT support professional or the OIT Help Desk before processing HIPAA-related content.

? Rutgers University Libraries must provide approval before library circulation or use records can be processed using this service. Please contact the libraries for more information.

? Proprietary information covered under contract or non-disclosure agreements are subject to Rutgers privacy policy. Please check with your IT support professional or the OIT Help Desk before processing this type of information.

? The processing of Institutional Infrastructure information must be approved by Institutional Planning and Operations. Please check with IPO for more information.

? Requires approval from Risk Management.

? Use case must comply with GLBA risk assessment before using the service. 

* These are general statements and are frequently modified by individual grants, data use agreements, or other contracts, and the requirements should be reviewed for each individual use case.

** The approval of the sharing and storage of this data is dependent upon Library administration approval

*** The approval of the sharing and storage of this data is dependent upon the grant or contractual agreement
" KB0012489 Email and Collaboration Services "Data classification and storage matrix – comparing Box, OneDrive and Google Drive" "
The table describes the data types that can be stored or processed on each central Rutgers platform, along with the services associated with each platform. Rutgers Connect encompasses OneDrive, CoPilot, etc. ScarletApps comprises Drive, Gemini, NotebookLM, etc.
Pursuant to Rutgers Policy 70.1.6, Rutgers business information or data, such as internal memos, planning documents, etc, should be stored and processed on Rutgers Connect, not on ScarletApps. 
IMPORTANT: These solutions are not appropriate for storing, processing, or sharing most types of institutional data classified as Critical. Review the Rutgers data classification and security matrix (located in Rutgers Policy 70.1.2 Information Classification) for more information on acceptable information types. 
Key: ? = Yes, X = No, ? = Link to additional info
Data *	Box	Rutgers Connect (OneDrive)	ScarletApps (Google Drive)
Storage Limits	5 terabytes	5 terabytes	30 gigabytes
Public	?	?	?
Internal	?	?	?
Course materials shared with students and instructors	?	?	?
Materials intended for publication/shared on non-password-protected Rutgers websites	?	?	?
Licensed software	?	?	X
NetID usernames/student ID numbers/employee numbers	?	?	X
Internal memos and planning documents	?	?	X
Student records (“FERPA”)	?	?	X
Copyrightable and patentable information related to research	?	?	?¹
US Government Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI)	?	?	X
Bank accounts & Financial Data	?	?	X
Social security numbers, driver's license numbers, or passport numbers	?	?	X
Research materials containing IRB-prohibited data	?²	?²	X
Protected Health Care Information (“PHI”)	?³	?³	X
Library circulation or use records **	??	??	X
Proprietary information covered under contract or non-disclosure agreements ***	??	??	??
Institutional Infrastructure (gas & electrical maps, etc.)	??	??	??
HI-TRUST certified departments	X	X	X
Login credentials (i.e, username AND password)	X	X	X
Police records	X	X	X
Credit/debit card numbers	X	X	X
International Traffic in Arms Regulation (ITAR)	X	X	X
US Government Classified	X	X	X
NIST 800-53 (FISMA)	X	X	X
 
NOTE: Items marked with a “?“ either have special conditions attached to the storage of this type of data or approval is required before the listed type of data can be stored in the service.

¹ Under law, the owner of a copyrighted work is generally the individual or company that created the work. In research, an author can use copyrighted work if they credit the owner or source. Similarly, a patent grants exclusive rights over an invention. Certain terms apply in storing copyrighted or patented works. Please see your respective IT support professional or the help desk for verification.

² With the spread of computers and internet-based research involving human participants, individuals must find a way to address unforeseen problems and risks. Due to the sensitive nature of data storage, backup, and destruction, you must consult with your respective department head before storing content that is subject to IRB approval.

³ PHI can be stored in Box provided it is stored in a Restricted folder. Restricted folders can be identified because your department shares them and has -[Restricted] before the folder name. If you have questions about what information can and can’t be stored in Box, please contact your IT professional or the OIT Help Desk.
Protected health information (PHI) pertains to any personally identifiable information (PII) collected by a healthcare agency. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) protects individuals' privacy rights in healthcare. While Box ensures security measures such as access monitoring, reporting, and audit trail, it’s important to check with your IT support professional or the OIT Help Desk before storing HIPAA-related content.

? Rutgers University Libraries must provide approval before library circulation or use records can be stored in Box. Please contact the libraries for more information.

? Proprietary information covered under contract or non-disclosure agreements is subject to Rutgers privacy policy. Please check with your IT support professional or the OIT Help Desk before storing this type of information in Box.

? The storage of Institutional Infrastructure information (e.g., gas and electrical maps, etc.) must be approved by Institutional Planning and Operations. Please check with IPO for more information.

* These are general statements and are frequently modified by individual grants, data use agreements, or other contracts, and the requirements should be reviewed for each use case.

** The approval of the sharing and storage of this data is dependent upon Library administration approval

*** The approval of the sharing and storage of this data is dependent upon the grant or contractual agreement
" KB0018232 Email and Collaboration Services Email accounts exceeding daily send limit (for Delegated Administrators) "
Starting December 11, 2024, the daily sending limit for individual user accounts in both Rutgers Connect and ScarletMail will be set to 1,000 messages per person, irrespective of the email's destination.
On ScarletMail, there is an additional restriction that the total number of recipients in the To, CC, and BCC fields is limited to 500 per email. 
The daily limit only applies to an individual's account and does not apply to emails sent from a distribution list or 365 Group. In addition, when sending an email to a distribution list address with multiple people on the list, it will only count as one email towards the daily sending limit. 
When sending email from a shared mailbox, you must open the shared mailbox directly, since simply changing the "From" address while in your personal email account still counts against your daily limit. Follow the instructions on how to open and send mail from the shared mailbox in a separate browser window.
Why an account is blocked
The limit will be imposed on user accounts only. Occasionally, a shared account may trigger a block and is handled as noted below. An account can be blocked from sending emails for any of the following reasons:
•	Sending any number of emails to 1,000 different user accounts (both internal and external accounts)
•	Forwarding any number of emails to 1,000 different user accounts (both internal and external accounts)
•	Adding over 500 users to the To/CC/BCC fields of an email several times on ScarletMail
The number of emails sent daily is calculated based on a rolling 24-hour period, not a calendar day, where each recipient counts as one email towards the limit. 
When it is detected that any of the limits have been met, the account is automatically blocked, and an incident is created in ServiceNow for Connect Support. 
User notification of a block
Users will see one of the following messages when sending an email after their account has been blocked. 
Rutgers Connect
"This message can't be sent because you've reached your daily limit for message recipients."
ScarletMail
"You have reached a limit for sending email."
"You reached a Gmail sending limit."
"You exceeded the maximum recipients."
Resolving blocks
Rutgers Connect
For any block that occurs for a Connect account, an Incident is automatically created in ServiceNow for Connect Support to review. They then review the account to confirm it is not compromised and determine the activity that generated the block before taking the following steps.
If they are legitimate emails, internal to Rutgers, and it is a shared account
•	The shared account is unblocked.
•	It is added to an exceptions list to prevent any recurring blocks. The exception list is still subject to hard limits imposed by Microsoft. There is a 2,500 limit on emails sent to external addresses, per rolling 24 hours. 
•	The appropriate Delegated Admins are notified of this occurrence.
If they are legitimate emails, internal to Rutgers, and it is a user account
•	The appropriate Delegated Admins are notified of this occurrence and informed of the various options/strategies to mitigate the cause of the block. 
•	The block is left in place until the Delegated Admins indicate they are working with the user or until 24 hours have passed. 
If they are legitimate emails and include external (non-RU) contacts
•	Regardless of account type, the appropriate Delegated Admins are notified of this occurrence and informed of the various options/strategies to mitigate the cause of the block. 
•	The block is left in place until the Delegated Admins indicate they are working with the user or until 24 hours have passed.
If the logs do not indicate the triggering behavior
•	The account is unblocked.
•	The appropriate Delegated Admins are notified of this occurrence and asked to contact the user.
All correspondence with the Delegated Admins is copied to the Incident, and it is resolved when merited or if 24 hours have passed and a block is no longer in place.
ScarletMail
Delegated Administrators are not typically available on the ScarletMail platform.
In these situations, the OIT Help Desk and ScarletMail service owners will evaluate the issue and work with the user or resolve the incident as appropriate
" KB0012621 Email and Collaboration Services Options for Rutgers email addresses "
You can identify what Rutgers email addresses you have access to by navigating to the NetID management page and selecting Manage Email Addresses. You will be able to identify your alias, delivery, and official Rutgers email addresses.
If you are a current Fall/Spring Session Student, Faculty, Staff, Guest, or Alumni with Rutgers and you have activated the ScarletApps service at the Service Activation link on the same website, you will have access to a ScarletMail account. ScarletMail is the official email service for Rutgers affiliates. You can access this account at ScarletApps by selecting Access ScarletMail. Here, you can log in with your netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu address and your NetID password.
If you are a current Faculty or Staff member within the university or a student with an RBHS role, you are most likely auto-provisioned for a Connect (Office 365) account. Connect accounts are mostly administered by your Departmental IT.
Your alias addresses are personalized email addresses, typically in the form of “firstname.lastname@rutgers.edu” to provide an alternate, professional display. It allows you to provide a different public address, separate from your typical NetID address, to others. All mail sent to any alias address that you publicly display will be sent to your delivery address(es). Your delivery addresses will be your ScarletMail account or your Connect account, depending on your role with the university. Your official Rutgers email address is the email address displayed for others who wish to locate your contact information through Rutgers Search.
When signing up for services using your Rutgers email, it is best to use the format netid@rutgers.edu, as it will deliver email to you regardless of your role with the university.
" KB0012646 Email and Collaboration Services Rutgers email account audit process "
The Office of Information Technology conducts weekly rolling audits of accounts on the Rutgers Connect and ScarletMail email systems.
If you no longer hold a role at Rutgers that is eligible for these email services, you will receive an email notification that your account will be closed in one week.
Select the service below for additional information about the audit and account closure procedure:
•	Rutgers Connect
•	Scarletmail
" KB0017697 Email and Collaboration Services Shared storage space options "
For groups or departments that want a shared space to store files that is not tied directly to one individual, the following options are available. 
Microsoft Teams – Departmental creation 
Microsoft Teams lets you choose a group of people with whom you wish to collaborate and easily set up a collection of resources for them to share. Items in the group's resources (Calendar, OneDrive, OneNote) will automatically be shared with all of the members of the group. To learn more about the features available, visit the Microsoft Teams webpage on the Rutgers IT website.  
Eligibility 
Departments can request a team by contacting your Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator. 
Storage limits 
Microsoft Teams starts with 1TB of SharePoint storage. If you need additional space, please contact your Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator. 
How to use a departmental Microsoft Team account  
If you would like a Microsoft Teams departmental account, please contact your Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator to request that one be created for you. To learn more on the features available, see the article on Getting started with Microsoft Teams or browse Microsoft’s Teams support page for more detailed information. 
Microsoft Teams – Self-creation 
A self-created Microsoft Teams account is a limited version of Microsoft Teams that may be created without the involvement of a Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator. Some differences are noted below. 
•	There is no unified group mailbox to view in Rutgers Connect. You can only send mail to specific channels within the team itself. 
•	Teams are restricted to the @teams.rutgers.edu domain and have a stricter naming policy.  
•	Owners can update or change the name of their Team in the Teams’ settings. 
•	After 400 days of inactivity, the Team owner(s) will receive an email notification from Microsoft stating that their Team will expire unless action is taken. The notice for Teams without an active owner, or no owner, will be sent to help@oit.rutgers.edu. 
•	The maximum available storage is 1TB. 
Eligibility 
Anyone with a Rutgers Connect account can create a team via the Teams application.  
Storage limits 
Microsoft Teams starts with 1TB of SharePoint storage. 
How to use a self-created Teams account 
Visit the Creating a Team article or Microsoft Teams support page for more information. 
Box departmental accounts 
A departmental account, also known as a shared account, is an account controlled by Rutgers IT delegated administrators who create sub-level folder shares from within that account to provide to their various user populations. Generally, only the delegated administrators for the domain have access to that top level. OIT considers a shared account to be the collective total resource, not the individual folders that are shared out to various departments.  
Eligibility 
Shared Box accounts are available to departments and their respective users. For a shared account, reach out to your Rutgers IT delegated administrator. 
Storage limits 
Shared Box accounts have a minimum storage limit of 25 TB. Shared accounts are considered the collective total resource of the account, not the individual folders that are shared with various departments.  
How to use Box 
To learn more, visit the getting started with Box article.   
ScarletMail Groups 
Shared storage on ScarletMail is not currently available at Rutgers. You can instead create a Google Group, which can include a collaborative Inbox that multiple people can access. However, files in a Google Group are owned by an individual and count against their ScarletMail storage limit.  
Eligibility 
ScarletMail accounts are available to Faculty, Staff, Students, Retirees, Professor Emeritus, and Guests. 
Storage limits 
When you share a file with a Google Group, it utilizes the individual file owner's storage. No additional shared storage space is provided. 
How to use Groups 
For more information on the features available, visit the article on what is a Google Group.  
For instructions on creating and using a Group, visit Google's Support guide on Groups. 
" KB0012637 Emergency Notification System (ENS) Registering for the Emergency Notification System "
To register for the Emergency Notification System (ENS) please follow the steps below:
1.	Go to the Personal Contact Information page.
2.	Fill out the information under the Mobile Phone Number for important user contact section.  
1.	Select which campus(es) you want the updates for.
2.	Enter the mobile phone number you want to receive the alerts at. 
3.	Check the box for Yes, I want to subscribe (opt-in) to ENS.
4.	Optionally, you may check the box to receive other campus-specific alerts. 
3.	Click Submit. 
For any further questions, contact the Office of Emergency Management by calling 848-932-4880.
" KB0015482 EndNote EndNote "
EndNote is administered by the University Libraries. For more information on how to download for Windows or macOS, visit the Libraries EndNote page.
If you need additional information or troubleshooting assistance, or if you would like to arrange a training session, visit the Ask a Librarian page. 
" KB0019473 Enterprise Generative AI Tools Getting Started with ChatGPT "
ChatGPT is an AI-powered conversational assistant developed by OpenAI that can help with writing, research, brainstorming, coding, data analysis, and more. Rutgers University offers ChatGPT Edu subscriptions through the University Software Portal, providing faculty, staff, and students with an enterprise-grade version of ChatGPT that includes enhanced data protections.
ChatGPT Edu is specifically designed for higher education institutions and ensures that your conversations and data are not used to train OpenAI’s models. This makes it a safer option for university-related work compared to using a free personal ChatGPT account.
Table of Contents
•	Appropriate Use
•	Safety and Data Protection 
o	Use Your Rutgers Account
o	What You Should Know
o	Personal Accounts vs. University Accounts
•	How to Get Started
•	Tips for Getting Better Results
•	Other Free AI Tools at Rutgers
•	Links
Appropriate Use
ChatGPT can be a valuable tool when used responsibly in an academic and professional setting. Common use cases include:
•	Writing assistance - Drafting, editing, and proofreading emails, reports, proposals, and other documents.
•	Research support - Summarizing articles, generating literature review outlines, and exploring topics.
•	Teaching and learning - Creating lesson plans, generating practice problems, explaining complex concepts, and providing feedback on student work.
•	Brainstorming - Generating ideas for projects, presentations, grant proposals, and creative assignments.
•	Coding help - Writing, debugging, and explaining code across a variety of programming languages.
•	Data analysis - Interpreting data sets, generating charts, and summarizing findings.
•	Administrative tasks - Drafting communications, creating agendas, and organizing information.
Always review AI-generated content for accuracy before using it in any official capacity. ChatGPT can produce plausible-sounding but incorrect information (often called “hallucinations”), so human oversight remains essential.
Safety and Data Protection
Use Your Rutgers Account
When you access ChatGPT through a Rutgers ChatGPT Edu subscription, your data is protected by OpenAI’s enterprise-level data handling agreements with the university. Your conversations and data are not used to train OpenAI’s models. This protection does not apply when using a free personal ChatGPT account.
What You Should Know
•	Do not enter protected health information (PHI), Social Security numbers, or other highly sensitive data into ChatGPT, even with a Rutgers subscription.
•	Do not rely on ChatGPT for critical decisions without verifying the information through authoritative sources.
•	Be aware of academic integrity policies. Students should consult their instructors and course syllabi regarding the acceptable use of AI tools in coursework.
•	ChatGPT may not always be accurate. It can generate incorrect facts, fabricated citations, and flawed reasoning. Always verify important information.
Personal Accounts vs. University Accounts
Personal vs University Accounts
Feature	Personal (Free) Account	Rutgers ChatGPT Edu
Data used for model training	Yes	No
Enterprise data protections	No	Yes
Institutional support	No	Yes
Using the Rutgers-provided subscription is strongly recommended for any university-related work.
How to Get Started
1.	Visit the University Software Portal and search for ChatGPT Edu.
2.	Purchase a subscription. ChatGPT Edu subscriptions start at $10 per month. Faculty and staff can purchase subscriptions for themselves or for members of their department.
3.	Log in to ChatGPT using your Rutgers credentials (your netid@rutgers.edu address).
4.	Start a conversation by typing a question or prompt in the message box.
Tips for Getting Better Results
•	Be specific with your prompts. Instead of asking “Tell me about climate change,” try “Summarize the three most significant effects of climate change on coastal ecosystems in the northeastern United States, citing recent research.”
•	Provide context. Let ChatGPT know your role, audience, and purpose. For example: “I’m a professor preparing a lecture for undergraduate biology students. Help me explain CRISPR gene editing in simple terms.”
•	Iterate on responses. If the first response isn’t quite right, ask ChatGPT to refine, expand, or adjust its answer.
•	Use system instructions. You can set custom instructions in your ChatGPT settings to tailor responses to your needs across all conversations.
Other Free AI Tools at Rutgers
Before subscribing to ChatGPT Edu, consider that Rutgers also provides free access to other AI tools, including Microsoft Copilot and Google Gemini. The Office of Information Technology recommends exploring these free alternatives unless your unit has an immediate need for ChatGPT Edu.
Links
•	ChatGPT Edu at Rutgers - Rutgers IT
•	University Software Portal - ChatGPT Edu
•	Comparing ChatGPT, Copilot, and Gemini - Data Classification and AI Matrix
•	ChatGPT Edu FAQ
•	OpenAI ChatGPT Documentation
•	AI at Rutgers - Office of Information Technology
" KB0019474 Enterprise Generative AI Tools Getting Started with Google Gemini "
Google Gemini is an AI-powered assistant developed by Google, available to all Rutgers faculty, staff, and students at no cost through their ScarletApps (Google Workspace for Education) accounts. All Rutgers faculty, staff, and student ScarletApps accounts have access to the Gemini app, available via web, desktop, or mobile clients. With an optional, free, upgrade to Google Workspace for Education Plus, Gemini can help with writing, research, brainstorming, summarization, coding, and creative tasks directly within the Google tools you already use.
When you sign in with your Rutgers ScarletApps account, Gemini operates under Google Workspace for Education’s enterprise data protections. This means your conversations and data are not used to train Google’s AI models, making it a safer choice for university-related work than a personal Google account.
Table of Contents
•	Appropriate Use
•	Safety and Data Protection 
o	Use Your Rutgers ScarletApps Account
o	What You Should Know
o	Personal Accounts vs. University Accounts
•	Known Limitations
•	How to Get Started
•	Tips for Getting Better Results
•	Upgrade to Google AI Pro
•	API Access
•	Links
Appropriate Use
Gemini is a versatile tool that can support a wide range of academic and professional tasks:
•	Writing and editing - Draft emails, reports, and documents; get suggestions for improving clarity and tone.
•	Research and summarization - Quickly summarize long documents, articles, or web pages. Use Deep Research to have Gemini conduct a web search on your behalf.
•	Brainstorming - Generate ideas for projects, presentations, lesson plans, and assignments.
•	Google Workspace integration - Use Google Workspace for Education Plus to directly access Gemini within Google Docs, Sheets, Slides, Drive, and more for context-aware assistance.
•	Coding assistance - Write, debug, explain, and preview the output of code in multiple programming or markup languages, including TeX.
•	Learning and tutoring - Break down complex topics, create study guides, and generate practice questions.
•	Media generation - Generate videos, music, and audio overviews. With Google Workspace for Education Plus, produce studio-quality AI-generated voiceovers.
•	Media understanding - Upload images or videos for Gemini to analyze, describe, or discuss.
As with all AI tools, always review Gemini’s output for accuracy. AI-generated content can contain errors, fabricated information, or biased perspectives.
Safety and Data Protection
Use Your Rutgers ScarletApps Account
When you access Gemini through your Rutgers ScarletApps account, your conversations are protected by Google Workspace for Education’s enterprise data agreements. Your data is not used to train Google’s AI models. This protection does not apply when using a personal Gmail account.
What You Should Know
•	Do not enter protected health information (PHI), Social Security numbers, financial account numbers, or other highly sensitive data into Gemini.
•	Do not rely on Gemini for critical decisions without verifying the information through authoritative sources.
•	Be aware of academic integrity policies. Students should check with their instructors about the acceptable use of AI tools in coursework.
•	Gemini may produce inaccurate information. Always fact-check important claims, especially citations and statistics.
Personal Accounts vs. University Accounts
Personal vs University Accounts
Feature	Personal Google Account	Rutgers ScarletApps Account
Data used for model training	Yes	No
Enterprise data protections	No	Yes
Google Workspace integration	Limited	Full
Institutional compliance	No	Yes
Always use your Rutgers ScarletApps account for university-related work.
Known Limitations
There are two known limitations with Gemini on Google Workspace for Education accounts that are important to be aware of:
•	Gems are currently disabled. Rutgers has turned off the Gems feature (custom Gemini personas) for security reasons. Once Google addresses these security concerns, Gems will be enabled, and this documentation will be updated accordingly.
•	Chat history cannot be deleted. The inability to delete individual chat conversations is a Google limitation with Gemini on Workspace for Education accounts. Google is working on resolving this issue, and this documentation will be updated once a fix is available.
How to Get Started
1.	Go to Gemini.
2.	Sign in with your Rutgers ScarletApps account (your netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu address). If you are currently signed into a personal Google account, switch to your Rutgers account first.
3.	Start a conversation by typing a question or prompt in the message box.
4.	Try Gemini's Tools - Under the Tools dropdown, choose an option such as Canvas (interactive document/code generation) or Guided Learning (has Gemini attempt to lead you to learning the answer, instead of instantly giving you the answer).
Tips for Getting Better Results
•	Be clear and specific. Provide enough detail in your prompts for Gemini to understand what you need. For example: “Summarize this 10-page research paper on renewable energy policy into 5 bullet points suitable for a departmental briefing.”
•	Provide context about your role and audience. For example: “I’m a graduate teaching assistant. Help me create a rubric for evaluating undergraduate research proposals.”
•	Use follow-up prompts. Continue the conversation to refine responses. Ask Gemini to expand on a point, change the tone, or reformat the output.
•	Upload files for analysis. You can upload documents, images, and other files for Gemini to analyze and discuss.
•	Leverage Workspace integration. Use the free upgrade to Google Workspace for Education Plus to access the Gemini side panel in Google Docs and other Google document editors. For example, ask the side panel to help you fix a bug in your Google Sheets =FORMULA syntax.
Upgrade to Google AI Pro
For users who need more advanced capabilities, Rutgers offers Google AI Pro for Education subscriptions through the University Software Portal. Purchasers enjoy higher usage limits, access to premium AI models, and enhanced video generation and foreign language capabilities. Faculty and staff can purchase subscriptions for themselves or assign them to others.
Google maintains a regularly updated PDF that describes the current differences between Fundamentals (the base ScarletApps account), Google Workspace for Education Plus, and Google AI Pro for Education. These differences are not part of Rutgers' contract, and are subject to change without notice.
API Access
Neither the free Gemini license nor the AI Pro for Education subscription includes access to the Gemini API. For programmatic access to Google's AI models, please contact OIT's Cloud Services team.
Links
•	Google AI Pro at Rutgers - Rutgers IT
•	Google Gemini
•	Comparing ChatGPT, Copilot, and Gemini - Data Classification and AI Matrix
•	Google Gemini Help Center
•	Google - Advancing Education using Google AI
•	AI at Rutgers - Office of Information Technology
" KB0019475 Enterprise Generative AI Tools Getting Started with Google NotebookLM "
Google NotebookLM is a free AI-powered research and note-taking tool that helps you understand, summarize, and interact with your own collection of public and private source materials. Unlike general-purpose chatbots, NotebookLM is grounded in the sources you provide - it analyzes your uploaded materials (PDFs, Google Docs, web links, YouTube videos, and more) and generates responses based specifically on that content. This makes it especially useful in academic settings where accuracy and source attribution matter.
NotebookLM is available to all Rutgers faculty, staff, and students at no cost through their ScarletApps (Google Workspace for Education) accounts.
Table of Contents
•	Appropriate Use 
o	For Faculty
o	For Students
o	For Staff
•	Safety and Data Protection 
o	Use Your Rutgers ScarletApps Account
o	What You Should Know
o	Personal Accounts vs. University Accounts
•	How to Get Started
•	Tips for Getting Better Results
•	Upgrade to NotebookLM Plus or NotebookLM Pro
•	Links
Appropriate Use
NotebookLM is particularly well-suited for tasks that involve working with specific source materials or for sharing AI technology with others, such as a project team or a study group. Here are some valuable use cases:
For Faculty
•	Course preparation - Upload syllabi, textbooks, and research papers to quickly generate lecture summaries, discussion questions, and study guides.
•	Research synthesis - Load multiple papers into a notebook to identify common themes, contradictions, and gaps across the literature.
•	Grading and feedback - Upload rubrics and student work samples to help draft consistent, detailed feedback.
•	Grant writing - Organize research notes, prior publications, and funding guidelines in a notebook to help draft proposal sections.
•	Meeting preparation - Upload agendas, prior meeting notes, and related documents to quickly get up to speed.
•	Chat-only notebook sharing - Prepare a set of vetted source materials for your students. Then, share the notebook as "chat-only," ensuring that students do not influence the source material used by other students.
For Students
•	Study and review - Upload class notes, slides, and readings to generate summaries, flashcards, and practice questions.
•	Research projects - Load research sources into a notebook and ask questions to identify key arguments, compare perspectives, and find relevant quotes with citations.
•	Paper writing - Upload your draft along with your sources to check whether your arguments are well-supported and identify areas that need more evidence.
•	Exam preparation - Create notebooks organized by topic or course module and use the Q&A feature to test your understanding. Flashcards, quizzes, mind maps, and more are supported.
•	Multimedia overviews - Generate audio or video summaries of your sources to review material on the go, similar to listening to a podcast about your own notes.
For Staff
•	Policy review - Upload policy documents, guidelines, and procedures to quickly find answers to specific questions.
•	Report generation - Load data reports and meeting notes to help draft executive summaries and briefings.
•	Training materials - Upload reference documents to create FAQ guides and training outlines for new team members.
As with all AI tools, always verify NotebookLM’s output against your original sources. While NotebookLM is grounded in your uploaded materials, it can still occasionally misinterpret or oversimplify complex content.
Safety and Data Protection
Use Your Rutgers ScarletApps Account
When you access NotebookLM through your Rutgers ScarletApps account, your data is protected by Google Workspace for Education’s enterprise data agreements. Your uploaded documents and conversations are not used to train Google’s AI models. This protection does not apply when using a personal Google account.
What You Should Know
•	Do not upload protected health information (PHI), Social Security numbers, financial account numbers, or other highly sensitive data to NotebookLM.
•	NotebookLM responses are only as good as the sources you use. If your uploaded materials contain errors, NotebookLM’s responses may reflect those errors.
•	Be aware of academic integrity policies. Students should consult their instructors about the acceptable use of AI tools for coursework. NotebookLM is a research aid, not a substitute for original analysis and critical thinking.
•	Verify citations and quotes. While NotebookLM provides source references, always check the original documents to ensure accuracy.
Personal Accounts vs. University Accounts
Personal vs University Accounts
Feature	Personal Google Account	Rutgers ScarletApps Account
Data used for model training	May be used	No
Enterprise data protections	No	Yes
Institutional compliance	No	Yes
Always use your Rutgers ScarletApps account for university-related work.
How to Get Started
1.	Go to NotebookLM.
2.	Sign in with your Rutgers ScarletApps account (your netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu address). If you are currently signed into a personal Google account, switch to your Rutgers account first.
3.	Create a new notebook by clicking the “New Notebook” button.
4.	Add sources by uploading PDFs, linking to Google Docs, pasting website URLs, adding YouTube videos, or pasting text directly.
5.	Start asking questions about your sources in the chat panel. NotebookLM will respond based on the content you provided and cite the specific sources it used.
Tips for Getting Better Results
•	Be intentional about your sources. NotebookLM works best when your uploaded materials are relevant and focused. A notebook with 5-10 well-chosen sources will produce better results than one with 50 loosely related documents.
•	Use the notebook guide. After uploading sources, check the automatically generated notebook guide for an overview of your materials and suggested questions.
•	Ask specific questions. Instead of “What is this about?”, try “What are the three main arguments in the Smith 2024 paper regarding climate policy?”
•	Generate audio overviews. Use the Audio Overview feature to create a podcast-style summary of your sources - great for reviewing material during a commute.
•	Organize by project or course. Create separate notebooks for each course, research project, or work initiative to keep your materials organized.
•	Pin important notes. Save useful AI-generated summaries and responses as notes within your notebook for easy reference later.
Upgrade to NotebookLM Plus or NotebookLM Pro
For users who need more advanced capabilities, Rutgers offers Google Workspace for Education Plus (centrally funded by Rutgers OIT; no cost to users) and Google AI Pro for Education (paid) subscriptions through the University Software Portal. Search for Workspace Plus or AI Pro if you feel you need higher usage limits or access to premium AI models. Faculty and staff can purchase subscriptions for themselves or assign them to others.
Links
•	Google NotebookLM
•	Google for Education — AI Offerings PDF document details the extra capabilities for Plus and Pro
•	Google AI Pro at Rutgers - Rutgers IT
•	Comparing ChatGPT, Copilot, and Gemini - Data Classification and AI Matrix
•	NotebookLM Help Center
•	University Software Portal
•	AI at Rutgers - Office of Information Technology
" KB0019476 Enterprise Generative AI Tools Getting Started with Microsoft Copilot "
Microsoft Copilot is an AI-powered assistant available to all Rutgers faculty, staff, and students at no cost when accessed using your Rutgers Connect account. Copilot can help with writing, summarizing documents, answering questions, generating images, drafting emails, writing code, and more. When you sign in with your Rutgers credentials, your data is protected by Microsoft’s enterprise data handling agreements and is not used to train Copilot’s foundation models.
Rutgers provides Copilot access as part of the university’s existing Microsoft licensing. There is also a separate, paid Microsoft 365 Copilot product that offers deeper integration with Microsoft 365 applications like Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Teams.
Table of Contents
•	Appropriate Use
•	Safety and Data Protection 
o	Use Your Rutgers Account
o	What You Should Know
o	Personal Accounts vs. University Accounts
•	Copilot vs. Microsoft 365 Copilot 
o	Copilot (Included with your Rutgers Connect Account)
o	Microsoft 365 Copilot (Paid Add-On)
•	How to Get Started
•	Tips for Getting Better Results
•	Links
Appropriate Use
Microsoft Copilot is a versatile AI assistant suitable for a wide range of academic and professional tasks:
•	Writing and editing - Draft, proofread, and refine emails, reports, proposals, and other documents.
•	Research and summarization - Summarize articles, web pages, and documents; get quick answers to factual questions.
•	Brainstorming - Generate ideas for projects, presentations, lesson plans, and creative work.
•	Image generation - Create original images from text descriptions using DALL-E integration.
•	Coding assistance - Write, explain, and debug code in multiple programming languages.
•	Data analysis - Help interpret data, create formulas, and explain statistical concepts.
•	Presentation preparation - Outline presentations, suggest talking points, and help organize content.
As with all AI tools, always review Copilot’s output for accuracy. AI-generated content can contain errors, outdated information, or biased perspectives.
Safety and Data Protection
Use Your Rutgers Account
When you access Copilot by signing in with your Rutgers email and NetID password, your data is protected by Microsoft’s enterprise-level privacy and security commitments. Your data is not used to train Copilot’s foundation models. This protection does not apply when using Copilot with a personal Microsoft account.
What You Should Know
•	When possible, avoid entering protected health information (PHI), Social Security numbers, financial account numbers, or other highly sensitive data into Copilot.
•	Do not rely on Copilot for critical decisions without verifying the information through authoritative sources.
•	Be aware of academic integrity policies. Students should consult their instructors about the acceptable use of AI tools in coursework.
•	Copilot may produce inaccurate information. Always fact-check important claims, especially citations, statistics, and technical details.
Personal Accounts vs. University Accounts
Personal vs Rutgers Accounts
Feature	Personal Microsoft Account	Rutgers Account
Data used for model training	May be used	No
Enterprise data protections	No	Yes
Encryption and privacy safeguards	Basic	Enterprise-grade
Institutional compliance	No	Yes
Always use your Rutgers account for university-related work.
Copilot vs. Microsoft 365 Copilot
Rutgers provides two levels of Copilot access. Here is a high-level overview of the differences:
Copilot (Included with your Rutgers Connect Account)
This is the AI chatbot available to everyone at Rutgers at no additional cost. It provides a conversational AI assistant that can answer questions, help with writing, generate images, and assist with coding. However, the Copilot chatbot does not include integrations with other Microsoft 365 tools like Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, or Teams.
Microsoft 365 Copilot (Paid Add-On)
Microsoft 365 Copilot is a paid subscription that embeds AI assistance directly into Microsoft 365 applications. It can draft documents in Word, create presentations in PowerPoint, analyze data in Excel, summarize email threads in Outlook, and assist during meetings in Teams. This deeper integration allows Copilot to work with your existing files and organizational data.
For detailed information about Microsoft 365 Copilot features, licensing, and pricing, visit the University Software Portal and search for Microsoft 365 Copilot. Faculty and staff can purchase subscriptions for themselves or assign them to others.
How to Get Started
1.	Go to Microsoft Copilot.
2.	Sign in with your Rutgers email and NetID password. This ensures your data is protected under the university’s enterprise agreement.
3.	Start a conversation by typing a question or prompt in the message box.
4.	Try different types of tasks - Ask Copilot to write an email, summarize a topic, generate an image, help with code, or answer a question.
Tips for Getting Better Results
•	Be specific with your prompts. Instead of “Write an email,” try “Write a professional email to my department announcing a schedule change for next week’s seminar, keeping the tone friendly and concise.”
•	Provide context. Let Copilot know your role and audience. For example: “I’m an academic advisor. Help me draft a message to students about course registration deadlines.”
•	Iterate on responses. If the first response isn’t what you need, ask Copilot to adjust. You can say things like “Make it shorter,” “Use a more formal tone,” or “Add more detail about the second point.”
•	Use follow-up questions. Continue the conversation to dive deeper into a topic or refine the output.
•	Try image generation. Describe an image you’d like to create, and Copilot will generate it using DALL-E. This can be useful for presentations, teaching materials, or creative projects.
Links
•	Microsoft Copilot at Rutgers - Rutgers IT
•	Microsoft Copilot
•	Comparing ChatGPT, Copilot, and Gemini - Data Classification and AI Matrix
•	Microsoft Copilot Help and Learning
•	Microsoft 365 Copilot Overview
•	University Software Portal
•	AI at Rutgers - Office of Information Technology
" KB0018877 ESRI ArcGIS ESRI ArcGIS FAQ "
Table of Contents
•	When will I lose the ability to log in to ArcGIS?
•	What should I do before losing access to ArcGIS Online?
•	What happens to my content if I do nothing?
•	What does the Esri Education Institution License allow?
•	Can I work on Rutgers projects after leaving?
•	Can I access my content after leaving Rutgers?
•	How do I transfer ownership to another Rutgers user?
•	How do I obtain and transfer content to an ArcGIS for Personal Use subscription?
When will I lose the ability to log in to ArcGIS?
Your access to ArcGIS Online is tied to your role at Rutgers University. If you are an active student, staff, faculty, or sponsored affiliate, your Rutgers account remains authorized. After graduating or leaving, you will lose login access, but your content will not be deleted immediately. Students not enrolled over Spring/Summer but returning in the Fall retain access as usual. 
What should I do before losing access to ArcGIS Online?
To maintain access to your content (Web Maps, StoryMaps, etc.), transfer it from your Rutgers account to another ArcGIS Online location. Options include:
•	Transfer to another Rutgers user: If your content is needed by others at Rutgers, transfer ownership to them. See the ESRI ArcGIS Transfer Request.
•	Transfer to an ArcGIS for Personal Use subscription: This paid option ($100/year) lets you continue working on your content and access Esri training materials. More information can be found on the ArcGIS for Personal Use website.
•	Delete your content: Remove anything you no longer need. Content will eventually be deleted after you leave.
If you need help determining what to do with your content, assistance with the various transfer options, or have other questions about ArcGIS, contact us at software@rutgers.edu. 
What happens to my content if I do nothing?
Content is not deleted immediately after you leave Rutgers. Content will be deleted only if the owner has not logged in for 3 years, and no one has viewed the content in 3 years.
What does the Esri Education Institution License allow?
Rutgers’ license covers unlimited use for university-related academic purposes (teaching and research). For details, see the general terms and Rubric for Permitted Uses. For licensing questions, contact software@rutgers.edu.
Can I work on Rutgers projects after leaving?
Ask your Rutgers collaborator to sponsor you for a Guest NetID. You may only use ArcGIS as a Sponsored Affiliate for Rutgers projects. 
Can I access my content after leaving Rutgers?
•	Publicly shared content remains accessible to everyone.
•	Content shared privately or with a group is not accessible after you lose login access.
•	Group members can still access content shared with the group, as long as they remain active at Rutgers. 
How do I transfer ownership to another Rutgers user?
See the ESRI ArcGIS Transfer Request.
How do I obtain and transfer content to an ArcGIS for Personal Use subscription?
Visit the ArcGIS for Personal Use website. Most content can be transferred using ArcGIS Online Assistant, except StoryMaps. For StoryMaps, contact software@rutgers.edu.
" KB0018864 ESRI ArcGIS ESRI ArcGIS Transfer Request "
To transfer data in ESRI ArcGIS, send an email to software@rutgers.edu with the subject line “ESRI ArcGIS transfer request.” Include the following information in the body of the email:
•	Requestor Name, NetID, phone number, and email address
•	If group(s)/group content is involved: Name(s) of Group(s)
•	Date to begin or by which the transfer needs to be completed
•	Name(s) and NetID(s) of new owner(s)/ArcOnline Username(s)
•	If group/group content is involved, confirm the new owner is a member of the Group(s)
•	Indicate the content to be moved: 
o	Name of File, File Format (ie: csv, shapefile, feature layer, web map, etc…)
o	Transfer information can be uploaded using a .csv, .xls, .doc, etc..
Notes:
•	If transferring group ownership, note all role/permission changes in membership.
•	If transferring all content to a single new owner, note all Titles and all Formats.
•	If there is content shared in and editable by group(s)/group members, the sharing permissions must be changed to the current owner and groups removed; change the owner; re-establish the permissions to the group(s).
Example CSV to attach with your request:
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0013131 General FAQs Do I need a camera or microphone to attend a Webex meeting? "
No, a camera or a microphone is not required to attend a Webex meeting. A camera can be used if you would like attendees to see you face-to-face, but you can also share your computer screen or use only the audio. In every Webex meeting, users can dial in from a regular or cell phone if they do not have a microphone on their computer. Most PC-compatible cameras should work with Webex.
" KB0013128 General FAQs How can I request or use a shared/departmental Webex account? "
Shared Webex accounts can be requested by contacting your Rutgers Connect Domain Administrator to activate Webex on a service account in your domain.
" KB0013125 General FAQs How do I log in to Webex? "
Personal Webex Account
1.	Navigate to the Rutgers Webex page.
2.	In the upper right-hand corner, select Sign in.
3.	Enter your Webex account email address. 
o	By default, this email is your Official Rutgers email address and varies based on what you have individually set your official email address to be. To verify which email format to use, go to the Rutgers Services Page and use the email listed in the Webex box. 
o	If you manually changed the email address for your Webex account through the Webex settings page, please use that email address. 
o	If you are unsure what email address to use, please contact your Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator. 
4.	Click Sign In. 
5.	Log in to the Rutgers CAS using your NetID and NetID password.
Shared Webex Service Account
You must already be a delegate for the service account. If you need a Webex service account or need to be granted access to one, please contact your Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator. 
1.	Navigate to the Rutgers Webex page.
2.	In the upper right-hand corner, select Sign in.
3.	Enter the email address formatted as: [serviceaccountname]@rutgers.edu 
o	Example: srv-oit-test@rutgers.edu
4.	Click Sign In. 
5.	On the Rutgers CAS screen, log in using the following credentials: 
o	Username: [serviceaccountname]+netid 
	Example: srv-oit-test+abc123
o	Password: Your NetID Password
Error Messages logging into the Shared Webex Service Account
"You are not authorized to impersonate the indicated user at this time."
You may receive this message for the following reasons: 
•	The email address was entered incorrectly on the initial Webex sign-in screen. Verify that the email was entered correctly. 
•	You may not be set as a delegate for this service account. Please reach out to your Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator to ensure you have the proper access to the account. 
"Please use the same email. The email used to authenticate was different than the email provided by the identity provider."
This may occur if you have previously logged into Rutgers CAS using your NetID in the same browser that you are trying to access the service account on. Any cached credentials in your browser may prevent you from properly signing in to the service account using the required username noted above. Try using a different browser, clearing the cookies/cache in the browser you are currently using, and using an incognito/private window to log in to the service account. 
" KB0013129 General FAQs How many people can Webex host? "
There are two main types of Webex sessions:
•	Meeting Center – Fully participatory meetings with up to 1000 attendees.
•	Webinar Center – A one-to-many application for up to 1000 attendees on the Webex app or webcast in browsers for up to 100,000.
Additional information on collaboration help can be found at the Webex Help Center:
•	What is the Maximum Number of Participants that can join a Webex Session or Call?
•	What is the Maximum Number of Participants that may Send Video in Webex Meetings?
" KB0013130 General FAQs Is Webex HIPAA Compliant? "
Yes, Rutgers Webex is HIPAA compliant. 
" KB0013127 General FAQs What is a Webex personal meeting room? "
Your Webex Personal Room is the virtual conference space that you can use for meetings anytime. Your Webex Personal Room is always available; you don’t have to book it, and you always know where to find it.
Share your link with someone to start an instant meeting. A Personal Room includes the following benefits:
•	Your Personal Room is always in the same place; the URL, video address, and call-in numbers never change.
•	Participants using video systems, Cisco Webex room devices, or desk devices can join if their Webex Meetings account allows them to join meetings from video devices.
•	A virtual waiting room or lobby where people wait if they try to join your Personal Room meeting ahead of time, or if you have locked your Personal Room.
" KB0013124 General FAQs What is included with my Webex license? "
The Rutgers Enterprise License Agreement provides multiple services in one package: the Meeting Center, Chat Spaces, and Webinars.
For more information, please visit our Webex Suite Comparison Guide.
" KB0017918 Grammarly Activating your Grammarly for Education account "
All eligible Rutgers faculty, staff, students, and guests can activate a Grammarly for Education account under the Rutgers license. 
If you do not have an existing Grammarly account
1.	Navigate to the Service Activation page.
2.	Log in with your NetID and NetID password.
3.	Under Grammarly, select Activate Service.
If you have an existing Grammarly account
Convert it to your Rutgers account
You can convert a personal Free or Premium account into your Rutgers Grammarly account to retain your existing settings and history.
1.	You must log in to your existing Grammarly account. 
2.	Change your email address to your netid@rutgers.edu email address if it is not already.
3.	Log out of your personal Grammarly account. 
4.	Navigate to the Service Activation page.
5.	Log in with your NetID and NetID password.
6.	Under Grammarly, select Activate Service.
Keep it separate from your Rutgers account
If you choose, you may keep your personal and Rutgers Grammarly accounts separate. 
1.	Log in to your existing personal Grammarly account. 
2.	Change your email address to one that is not your netid@rutgers.edu email address.
3.	Log out of your personal Grammarly account. 
4.	Navigate to the Service Activation page.
5.	Log in with your NetID and NetID password.
6.	Under Grammarly, select Activate Service.
If you have a Grammarly Premium account
You can follow the steps above to join the Rutgers account. Afterward, you may be able to request a prorated refund for your personal Grammarly Premium account by visiting the Grammarly Subscription website and following the instructions on how to receive a refund for an individual plan. 
For more information on Grammarly, visit the Getting Started with Grammarly guide. 
" KB0017930 Grammarly Getting started with Grammarly for Education "
Grammarly is a writing enhancement tool that checks for spelling, grammar, and punctuation errors. It offers plagiarism-detection services and advanced writing suggestions to improve clarity, vocabulary, style, and tone.
Features
Improve your communication in and out of the classroom with Grammarly’s suite of offerings, including:
•	Grammar and spelling suggestions: Check for grammatical and spelling errors in real-time.
•	Tone detection: Access enhanced tone and vocabulary recommendations.
•	Citations: Receive suggestions for citation formatting and management.
•	Plagiarism detection: Check against billions of pages and academic papers to ensure you don’t submit unoriginal writing.
•	Integrations: Available across devices as a standalone application or add-on extension for browsers. 
Getting Started
Accessing your account
Faculty, staff, and students can activate their Rutgers Grammarly for Education account or convert an existing personal account by following the guide on how to activate Grammarly.
After your account has been activated, you can access it by logging into the Rutgers Grammarly link or entering your netid@rutgers.edu email address on the Grammarly website. 
User Guide
Visit Grammarly's User Guide for more information on the available features and settings. Note that not all features in this guide may be available. 
Installing Grammarly
You can download the desktop/mobile applications or the browser extension by logging in to the Grammarly Apps page on the device you want to install it on. The website will automatically detect the Operating System (OS) and browser you are using. Visit the Grammarly Support page for detailed instructions on installing. 
" KB0017934 Grammarly Grammarly for Education account audits "
Who can have a Grammarly for Education account?
According to Office of Information Technology guidelines, only the following classes of people are eligible to have Grammarly for Education accounts:
•	On-boarded (current and future) employees of Rutgers University
•	Current students
•	Professor Emeritus
•	Guests: individuals conducting University business and directly associated with the University but are not officially on the University's payroll. Examples of guests include visiting professors/scholars, members of auxiliary groups, and others working on University business or affiliated with the University.
The following groups of people are not automatically eligible for Grammarly for Education accounts:
•	Former employees (including teaching/graduate assistants who may still be students but are not actively working for Rutgers)
•	Alumni
•	Retirees
How can I keep my Grammarly for Education account?
We determine which accounts should be closed by comparing Grammarly for Education accounts with the active roles (e.g. Faculty or Staff) of NetIDs listed in the University’s OpenRegistry (OR) service, which is used as the basis for the Rutgers Online Directory. The OR may have some information that needs correction.
Current Employees
You may not be listed in the OR as a current employee. To check this, go to the Search for People tool and search for your name. Review each result if you get more than one. Contact your department’s Human Resources person if your name does not appear.
When your entry appears, review the information there. If it is incorrect, contact the person in your department’s Human Resources.
Students
If you are a current student, first verify your status in OR. To check this, go to the Search for People tool and search for your name. Review each result if you get more than one. If your name does not appear, please inquire about your registration via One Stop.
When your entry appears, review the information there. If it is incorrect, please inquire about your registration via One Stop.
Guests
If you are affiliated with Rutgers but not actually employed by Rutgers, you may request a guest account. Have a sponsor at the department you are working with go to the Guest Account site, and submit a request for you, which will be sent to our Accounts Office for processing.
Every year, you must renew your guest account. You will be notified when it's time to renew your account (30 days prior to its expiration).
Your Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator can assist your sponsor in submitting a Guest Account request and, if necessary, creating your account.
What should I do before the account is closed?
Before losing your Grammarly account, it is recommended that you download any files you may have saved in the Grammarly Editor.
What is the typical account audit timeline?
When it is determined that you no longer have an active role at the University that entitles you to a Grammarly account, your account will be locked for 30 days. During this time, use of your account will be unavailable. However, you may not be logged out immediately, and saved cookies on your device may allow limited Grammarly functionality for a short time. 
After 30 days, your account and any associated data are deleted. 
For further assistance
If you have any questions about the above, contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0017933 Grammarly How many devices can I use Grammarly on?
Grammarly can be used on up to 5 devices at once. 
KB0012530 Guest NetID Guest NetIDs and Accounts "
Guest accounts are intended to support the activities of Rutgers University. Guests are expected to use their Rutgers accounts only in support of their work with Rutgers, as described in their guest account application. More detailed policies are contained in the Guest Account Policies section of the Computing Policies page. All guests and their sponsors are responsible for abiding by the policies described on that page, including specifically the Acceptable Use Policy and Guest Policy.
Guest Accounts For Faculty and Staff
A full-time Rutgers faculty or staff member can request a guest account. This individual will be considered the University sponsor and will be expected to maintain contact with the guest.
Annual renewal notifications will be addressed to the sponsor and the guest.
To request a guest account, the sponsoring department should complete the online form located on the Guest Request System. 
Guest Accounts for Faculty/Staff Retirement
Retired Rutgers employees who have served the university for a minimum of 10 years can apply for retention of their ScarletMail accounts following retirement.
To do so, they must contact the Rutgers Retired Faculty and Staff Center, University Human Resources located at ASB II, 57 US Highway 1, New Brunswick, NJ 08901-8554, by phone (848) 932-3580 or email retireecenter@hr.rutgers.edu.
The retiree will then be directed to the Guest Request System to submit a guest request. Once the request has been approved, the retiree's ScarletMail account will be subject to all guest account regulations.
An annual audit of ScarletMail accounts will be conducted. The retiree should reply to the audit email message sent out to maintain his/her ScarletMail account. If no reply is received by the due date, the account will be closed during the next regularly scheduled account closing time.
Changing the Sponsor of a Guest
If the sponsor needs to be changed for a guest for any reason, such as the current sponsor leaving the University, submit a new guest request with the new sponsor and note in the request that it is to change the sponsor. 
Contact Information
For assistance, please contact the OIT Help Desk at: 833-OIT-HELP (648-4357) or email help@oit.rutgers.edu.
" KB0013120 Hardware FAQs How can I enable/disable Speaker Track on Touch 10? "
Speaker Track allows the camera to follow whoever is speaking. Speaker Track can be enabled/disabled through the Touch 10 system.
1.	Open the call controls, or at any time, open the control panel and tap the Camera button.
2.	Choose a camera mode. 
o	Group: The camera will adjust to show everyone.
o	Frames: The camera will zoom and show people individually or in smaller groups.
o	Speaker: The camera will follow the person speaking. The maximum distance for speaker tracking to work is 7.5 meters.
3.	Tap outside the camera options screen to exit.
More information about this can be found in the Touch 10 user manual.
" KB0013119 Hardware FAQs How can I share a presentation from another device to the Touch 10? "
A presentation can be shared from another device using the Multi-Connector or via Wi-Fi or Bluetooth using Proximity.
Multi-Connector set up
1.	Plug the Multi-Connector into your laptop.
2.	On the Cisco Touch 10 unit, there will be two options: 
o	Local Preview: will only be visible in your room, allowing you to see what you will be sharing before actually doing so.
o	Share in Call: will share your screen with all call recipients.
Proximity set up
To use Proximity, the Cisco Telepresence Unit must have Proximity enabled. The user should speak with their local IT for this.
Proximity is available for download from the Cisco website, the App Store, or the Google Play Store.
Proximity on Desktop
1.	After downloading and installing the Proximity, launch the application.
2.	The application will search the area for proximity-enabled Cisco Touch Units.
3.	Once a system is found, the PC will be automatically connected.
4.	Once connected, there will be two options: Share Screen or Make a Call.
5.	When connected, the PC effectively works as the Touch 10 unit.
Proximity on Mobile Device
1.	From the App Store or Google Play Store, download the Proximity app.
2.	Open the Proximity app.
3.	The Proximity app will begin searching for a Proximity-enabled Cisco Touch Unit.
4.	Once connected to a CTU, the user can Share Screen or Make a Call.
For more information, visit Cisco's PDF Handbook on Cisco TelePresence User Guide Systems Using Touch 10.
" KB0013121 Hardware FAQs How do I put the Touch 10 on standby? "
When not in use, the Touch 10 unit can be placed on standby. 
1.	On the Touch 10 unit, tap the upper right corner of the homescreen.
2.	Tap Standby.
" KB0012666 Identity and Access Management Activating your services "
If you have already activated your NetID, you may use this tool to activate additional services. You can choose services for which you are eligible, including ScarletApps, Zoom, Webex, and VPN.
Service activation can be found by going to the NetID Management page and selecting Service Activation, or going directly to the Service Activation page. Services can be activated during the initial NetID activation process or afterward.
Depending on your Role at the University, the following Services can be activated using this tool:
•	ScarletApps: including ScarletMail, Google for Rutgers
•	Rutgers Connect: including Office 365 for Faculty/Staff and RBHS Students
•	Grammarly: Text review tool
•	Remote Access VPN: Cisco AnyConnect Access for Rutgers Faculty, Staff, Students, and Guests.
•	Webex: Web conferencing tool
•	Zoom: Web conferencing tool
•	Box: Cloud Storage Platform
•	Adobe: Photo and video editing
For assistance, please contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0017479 Identity and Access Management Shibboleth Request Process Flow "
Visit the Rutgers Identity and Access Management site for more information.
Please go here to Download the PDF version of the Shibboleth request process flow.
 
Error! Filename not specified.
 
" KB0018751 IT Service Delivery and Support OIT Help Desk Chat Support "
The Office of Information Technology now provides a new live chat feature to provide the university community with an additional way to get tech support.  To use the chat feature, you must be logged into the Rutgers IT Help portal, so it will not be available for password resets or other password-related issues. 
Error! Filename not specified.
Once logged in, use the chat bubble icon in the lower right-hand corner to start your chat.Error! Filename not specified.
 
" KB0012659 IT Service Delivery and Support Scheduling a walk-in appointment at the OIT Help Desk in New Brunswick "
If you are a student, faculty, staff member, or guest unable to resolve your issue by phone or would prefer to troubleshoot the issue in person, you may walk into the OIT Help Desk (Room 172 in Davidson Hall on Busch Campus) to have us look at your computer and provide assistance free of charge.
Please note that some issues can be extremely difficult and sometimes may cause damage to remove, so there are limitations to what we can address.
You do not have to schedule an appointment. However, it is strongly encouraged to ensure prompt service. To schedule an appointment for this service, call the Help Desk (833-OIT-HELP) or use the Appointment Calendar. In the Appointment Calendar request, please include any incident number(s) related to your issue if you have previously called in.
NOTE: If you are scheduling an appointment to speak with full-time staff regarding a locked account or NetID, you MUST select an appointment during regular business hours (Monday through Friday). If you are unsure if this applies to you, please call ahead to confirm.
" KB0012854 Java Can Java be used for development purposes? "
Oracle’s license indicates that Java is still free for development use. They define development as using Java “for the purpose of designing, developing, and testing your programs.” However, a license is required if the developers use any Java tools Oracle considers to be commercial, including:
•	Java Flight Recorder
•	Java Mission Control
•	Java Advanced Management Console
•	MSI Enterprise JRE Installer
•	JRockit Flight Recorder
•	JRockit Mission Control Console observability
•	JRockit Mission Control Memory Leak Detector observability
•	JRE Usage Tracking
•	JRockit Real Time, Deterministic GC
" KB0012856 Java Is Oracle Java included with an application I bought? "
Your application vendor may have a licensing agreement with Oracle that allows use of Oracle Java to run the vendor’s product. If this is the case, you will not need a separate license from Oracle for Java running on the application; however, you will need a licensed copy or free alternative to run other Java applications on the same system. Please consult the application compatibility matrix or contact your vendor to determine the requirements for that specific application. 
" KB0012578 Java KACE Java Removal 8u+ "
Create the Batch File for the KScript
1.	Open a text editor and create a new file.
2.	Create a new REM and MsiExec.exe line for each of the Java versions identified in your ORG in the next section. 
3.	Save the File as java.bat *An Example script is already created with some common examples at bottom.*
script
REM Kill All iexplore processes
taskkill /f /im iexplore.exe
REM Uninstall Software Detail
MsiExec.exe /X{########-####-####-####-############} /qn /norestart
Exit
Identify the Versions of Java that are no longer Free.
1.	Log in to the KACE Portal: https://kbox3.rutgers.edu/adminui/
2.	Click on Inventory > Software
1.	Click on Advanced Search and use the following search parameters:
	Publisher = Oracle Corporation
	Display Name Contains Java
	Display Version > 8.0.2020.8

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	This filter will display any Java Versions that are no longer free.
3.	Collect the Uninstall Command from each version.
	Click on each version of Java and copy the Uninstall Command: and Software Detail Name.
	Example: 
Error! Filename not specified.
Error! Filename not specified.
Removing Versions of Java
1.	Log in to the KACE Portal: https://kbox3.rutgers.edu/adminui/ 
2.	Click on Scripting > Scripts
3.	Click on Choose Action, in the top left.
1.	Select New from the dropdown.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Script Details
1.	Enter a Name for the Script. *Required Field*
2.	Select Type Online KScript.
3.	Under the Deploy section, choose the machines you wish to target.
	We suggest you perform this on a test group before applying it to your entire organization.
4.	Set Run As Local System.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Configure the Notification and Scheduling options according to your organization's preferences.
	We recommend that you enable the following Schedule Options.
	Allow run without a logged-in user.
	Run on next connection if offline.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Dependencies:
	Click on +New Dependency…
	Click on ‘Choose File’
	Select the ‘java.bat’ file created in steps 1 and 2 and click Open.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Tasks:
	Under Verify click Add… and choose Verify a File Exists.
	Directory: ‘$(KACE_DEPENDENCY_DIR)’
	File: ‘java.bat’
	Click Save Changes

Error! Filename not specified.
	Under On Success click Add… and choose Launch a program…
	a. Directory: $(KACE_DEPENDENCY_DIR)
	b. File: java.bat
	c. Check the Wait for completion Option
	d. Click Save Changes 

Error! Filename not specified.
8.	The Script is now complete. Click on Save or Run Now to save and run the script on the targeted machines.

Error! Filename not specified.
Example Script using Common Java versions.
script
taskkill /f /im iexplore.exe 
REM Uninstall Java(TM) SE Development Kit 9.0.4 (64-bit) MsiExec.exe /X{1EF87463-0B0F-5B2A-B167-22B5CD371ACD} /qn /norestart
REM Uninstall Java 9.0.4 (64-bit) MsiExec.exe /X{885A3911-0760-5252-92C2-001B92997DEA} /qn /norestart
REM Uninstall Java(TM) SE Development Kit 9.0.1 (64-bit) MsiExec.exe /X{4AC8DBB2-1AE5-5156-83F9-D4E2E6DD564B} /qn /norestart
REM Uninstall Java(TM) SE Development Kit 10.0.1 (64-bit) MsiExec.exe /X{398EFBE6-18DB-5E47-8E12-481F95602239} /qn /norestart
REM Uninstall Java 10.0.1 (64-bit) MsiExec.exe /X{D33DF729-38BB-5651-9D40-93BFEFB5DCED} /qn /norestart
REM Uninstall Java(TM) SE Development Kit 11.0.1 (64-bit) MsiExec.exe /X{F4039C0F-E4C1-5905-9E7D-DDA8EDE365BC} /qn /norestart
REM Uninstall Java(TM) SE Development Kit 11.0.2 (64-bit) MsiExec.exe /X{07E85AEA-1F8D-5F49-8CC8-319389751152} /qn /norestart
REM Uninstall Java(TM) SE Development Kit 11.0.4 (64-bit) MsiExec.exe /X{D3E31A1B-9D08-58C9-A7CF-7A78FDF3AA08} /qn /norestart
REM Uninstall Java(TM) SE Development Kit 12.0.1 (64-bit) MsiExec.exe /X{0D60E96D-0B74-55A5-ACA5-0F6786FDF256} /qn /norestart
REM Uninstall Java(TM) SE Development Kit 13.0.1 (64-bit) MsiExec.exe /X{02E6B6AF-D69D-5191-9D34-7E11D4AC952C} /qn /norestart
REM Uninstall Java 8 Update 211 (64-bit) MsiExec.exe /X{26A24AE4-039D-4CA4-87B4-2F64180211F0} /qn /norestart
REM Uninstall Java SE Development Kit 8 Update 211 (64-bit) MsiExec.exe /X{64A3A4F4-B792-11D6-A78A-00B0D0180211} /qn /norestart
REM Uninstall Java 8 Update 211 MsiExec.exe /X{26A24AE4-039D-4CA4-87B4-2F32180211F0} /qn /norestart
REM Uninstall Java SE Development Kit 8 Update 212 (64-bit) MsiExec.exe /X{64A3A4F4-B792-11D6-A78A-00B0D0180212} /qn /norestart
REM Uninstall Java 8 Update 212 (64-bit) MsiExec.exe /X{26A24AE4-039D-4CA4-87B4-2F64180212F0} /qn /norestart
REM Uninstall Java 8 Update 221 MsiExec.exe /X{26A24AE4-039D-4CA4-87B4-2F32180221F0} /qn /norestart
REM Uninstall Java SE Development Kit 8 Update 221 MsiExec.exe /X{32A3A4F4-B792-11D6-A78A-00B0D0180221} /qn /norestart
REM Uninstall Java 8 Update 221 (64-bit) MsiExec.exe /X{26A24AE4-039D-4CA4-87B4-2F64180221F0} /qn /norestart
REM Uninstall Java SE Development Kit 8 Update 221 (64-bit) MsiExec.exe /X{64A3A4F4-B792-11D6-A78A-00B0D0180221} /qn /norestart
REM Uninstall Java 8 Update 231 (64-bit) MsiExec.exe /X{26A24AE4-039D-4CA4-87B4-2F64180231F0} /qn /norestart
REM Uninstall Java 8 Update 231 MsiExec.exe /X{26A24AE4-039D-4CA4-87B4-2F32180231F0} /qn /norestart
REM Uninstall Java SE Development Kit 8 Update 231 (64-bit) MsiExec.exe /X{64A3A4F4-B792-11D6-A78A-00B0D0180231} /qn /norestart
REM Uninstall Java 8 Update 241 MsiExec.exe /X{26A24AE4-039D-4CA4-87B4-2F32180241F0} /qn /norestart
REM Uninstall Java 8 Update 241 (64-bit) MsiExec.exe /X{26A24AE4-039D-4CA4-87B4-2F64180241F0} /qn /norestart
REM Uninstall Java SE Development Kit 8 Update 241 (64-bit) MsiExec.exe /X{64A3A4F4-B792-11D6-A78A-00B0D0180241} /qn /norestart
exit
" KB0014018 Java Oracle Support Portal and Java downloads "
Oracle Java is a set of computer software and specifications that provide a system for developing and deploying application software in a cross-platform computing environment.
You can download Java SE directly from Oracle. If you need non-public versions or access to support resources, create a My Oracle Support account by following the directions below.
The following licensed products are included under the Rutgers agreement:
•	SE Desktop
•	SE Processor
Create an account to access the Oracle Support Portal and Java downloads
1.	Navigate to the Oracle Support Portal.
2.	Click Register as a new user.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Fill out the required information and click Create Account.
4.	After clicking Create Account, you will be sent an email to confirm your email address.
o	Note: if you do not receive an email, check your Spam/Junk folder or request a new verification email.
5.	In the email you receive, click on Verify Email Address.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	You will be redirected to the Success page. Click on Continue, and you will be taken back to the Oracle Support Portal.
7.	On the Support Portal, click on Login to My Oracle Support and continue signing in with the email address you used and the password you created.
8.	Next, you will need to connect your User Account to Rutgers:
o	Enter your Rutgers Department and any additional notes you may have in the Note to Approver field.
o	Enter 24153174 in the Support Identifier field.
o	Click Request Access....

Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Enter Rutgers as the Organization Name and click Validate.

Error! Filename not specified.
10.	You should now see the Rutgers Support Identifier in the list of Access Requests. Click Next.

Error! Filename not specified.
11.	You will now be prompted to provide your Contact Information:
o	Most of the fields will be pulled from the information you entered when you registered the account. Verify the information is correct and fill in the remaining required fields.
o	Once complete, click Next.

Error! Filename not specified.
12.	Check off the I accept the My Oracle Support Terms of Use box after reading the agreement. Then click Submit.

Error! Filename not specified.
13.	You will receive a confirmation on the website that your request has been submitted. Your request is then sent for review.
14.	After it has been approved, you will receive an email that contains a link to the Oracle Support Portal.
15.	You will now be able to log in to the portal and access the download of Oracle Java products.
" KB0012704 Java Uninstall Java on my Windows computer "
Follow Java's instructions on how to uninstall Java from a Windows computer.
" KB0012855 Java What about Java for personal use? "
Personal uses, such as using Java on a desktop or laptop computer to play games or run other personal applications, do not require license fees. If you are using Java on a desktop or laptop computer as part of any business operations, however, that is not personal use.
For example, you could use a Java productivity application to do your own homework or your personal taxes, but you could not use it to do your business accounting.
" KB0012840 KACE FAQ Can KACE perform security patches and upgrade applications to new versions? "
Quest works with a list of vendors to obtain the most up to date patches for both applications and operating systems. Quest tests each patch before making them available for download on the KACE appliance. Each organization can configure which patches they wish to subscribe to, as well as the type of patches (critical, recommended, and optional).
Software updates to new versions can be accomplished via the Software Distribution feature. This feature allows the installation of upgrades and new applications remotely to client systems in multiple locations.
" KB0012837 KACE FAQ "Can patching be configured to exclude systems, which may be sensitive to patching?"
The Patch Management feature allows the unit computing staff to restrict the distribution to specific systems or groups of systems. This allows an individual system or group of systems to be excluded from receiving patches.
KB0012831 KACE FAQ How can I obtain a KACE Organization for my department? "
To request a KACE organization, please fill out the KACE New ORG Request form. 
If you have any questions, please contact KACE_support@oit.rutgers.edu.
" KB0012833 KACE FAQ How does KACE work? "
A small application will be installed on the client systems, the KACE Amp Agent. This agent periodically scans the system to collect inventory data, which is then sent back to the appliance. This agent is required to perform the following tasks.
•	Software Distribution
•	Software Metering
•	Scripting
•	Patching
Alternatively, a client system can be inventoried via the Agentless Inventory feature. This might be used on a mission critical server or a system where an agent does not exist. The agentless inventory feature can also track additional devices, such as Dell projectors and printers. Client systems utilizing Agentless Inventory will be sent a command from the KACE system periodically to collect data.
" KB0012835 KACE FAQ How is Rutgers using KACE?
KACE is a centrally funded service that is available to all university departments. Each department can obtain a secure and containerized KACE organization to help support and maintain Rutgers-owned equipment. The administration and configuration of each feature provided by the K1000 appliance are unique to each organization. This provides each department with the ability to fully manage the implementation within their environment.
KB0012836 KACE FAQ What data does KACE collect from a computer? "
The KACE agent collects available data via Microsoft’s Windows Management Instrumentation and the System Profiler on Mac systems. The data includes, but is not limited to:
•	System hardware (CPU, RAM, Hard Disks, etc.)
•	Make, model & serial/service tag information
•	Networking (IP Address, MAC address, etc.)
•	System software inventory
•	Operating system version and patch level
•	Software licenses & metering statistics (if enabled)
•	Historical records (changes in software, hardware, system name, etc.)
" KB0012830 KACE FAQ Which types of operating systems are supported by KACE? "
The KACE Systems Management Appliance (SMA) Agent is an application that can be installed on devices to enable device management through the KACE SMA. The KACE SMA Agent can be installed on devices that meet the following operating system requirements.
Agent-Managed Operating Systems (Supported by KACE SMA 15.0)
Windows
OS	Supported Editions/Versions
Windows 11 IoT	Enterprise: 21H2, 22H2
Windows 11	Professional, Enterprise: 21H2, 22H2, 23H2, 24H2
Windows 10 IoT	Enterprise: 1809
Windows 10	Professional, Enterprise: 1607, 1703, 1709, 1803, 1809, 1903, 1909, 2004, 20H2, 21H1, 21H2, 22H2
Windows 8, 8.1	Professional, Enterprise
Windows Server 2022	Standard, Datacenter
Windows Server 2019, 2016	Essentials, Standard, Datacenter
Windows Server 2012, 2012 R2	Foundation, Essentials, Standard, Datacenter
macOS
OS	Versions Supported
macOS 	11.0, 12.0, 13.0, 14.0, 15.0
Linux Distributions
Distribution	Versions Supported
Red Hat Enterprise Linux AS/ES	 7.4 – 9 (64-bit)
Ubuntu LTS	18.04, 20.04, 22.04 (64-bit)
SUSE Linux Enterprise Server	12, 15
Raspbian Linux (Raspberry Pi)	8 (Buster), 9, 10 (Buster), 11 (Bullseye), 12 (Bookworm)
CentOS	7.4 – 8 (64-bit)
 
Agentless Management Supported OS Families
Agentless inventory can be used on devices without installing the SMA agent for inventory only. Supported platforms include:
•	CentOS
•	Chrome OS
•	Debian
•	Fedora
•	FreeBSD
•	Mac OS X
•	Oracle Enterprise Linux
•	Raspbian Linux
•	Red Hat
•	SUSE
•	Solaris
•	Ubuntu
•	Windows / Windows Server (various)
" KB0012834 KACE FAQ Who can access the data collected by KACE and where is the data stored? "
All data collected by KACE is stored in a secure database within the KACE appliance. Data for each KACE organization is stored in its unique, secure database, accessible only by the administrator responsible for that organization. The aggregate data is accessible to authorized OIT KACE administrators. However, no changes to the systems are made without consent from the organization's admins. These administrators may produce periodic reports to OIT senior management during events such as a university-wide software audit.
" KB0012839 KACE FAQ Will KACE scan storage devices attached to my computer (USB drives and/or hard drives)? "
The KACE agent scans the hard disk for capacity, utilization, and drive designations (for example, "C:\" or "D:\"). The agent does not collect any data on the contents of the disks, or file structure.
" KB0012838 KACE FAQ Will my system always be connected to the KACE appliance? "
The KACE agent maintains a low resource connection to the KACE appliance for the entire time a system is powered on. This constant connection allows tasks to be sent on demand from the appliance to the client systems. If a system goes into sleep, hibernation, or is powered off, the connection to the appliance is severed. Once the client system exits these states, it will automatically reconnect to the appliance.
" KB0012832 KACE FAQ Will the KACE agent hinder the performance of my computer?
The KACE agent utilizes less than 2% of the system resources and runs as a background service. The client system will perform an inventory scan on a schedule and then upload the data to the KACE appliance. This scan is not intrusive and does not impede the end user's information or computer performance.
KB0012577 KACE Support KACE (Upgrading Windows version) "
•	Creating the Windows Installation Package
•	Uploading the Package to the KACE Systems Management Appliance (SMA)
•	Mapping the Zip with a Software Title
•	Creating the Managed Installation
Creating the Windows Installation Package
1.	Download or create the ISO for the version of Windows you plan to deploy. 
1.	Download the Windows ISO from the Microsoft Volume Licensing Center or the Rutgers Software Portal.
2.	Create the ISO from a Windows Machine.
1.	Download the Media Creation Tool from the Microsoft website.
2.	Launch the tool.
3.	When it asks "What do you want to do?" choose Create installation media (USB flash drive, DVD, or ISO file) for another PC.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click Next.
5.	If you want the recommended options for language, architecture, and edition, click Next. 
	Otherwise, adjust as needed before proceeding.

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	For Choose which media to use, select ISO file and click Next.
7.	Choose a name (example: "Win10_1803_English_x64.iso") and location to save the ISO file. The utility will now build the ISO file.
2.	After you have downloaded or created the ISO, mount it and compress its contents into a .zip file.
1.	In Windows, the ISO can be mounted by right-clicking on the file and choosing Mount or simply double-clicking on the ISO file.
2.	Once mounted, select all of the files within the ISO (not the directory/drive, but the files within it).
3.	Then right click and choose Send to > Compressed (zipped) folder.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	After compression completes, the zip file will be created. Rename the zipped file appropriately. This zip file will be used in the steps that follow. 
	Example: "Win10_1903_English_x64.zip". 
5.	Unmount the ISO (right-click the drive and click Eject), then store/discard the ISO as desired.
Uploading the Package to the KACE Systems Management Appliance (SMA)
Due to several file size limitations in KACE, the Windows file zip must be uploaded to the Systems Management Appliance (SMA) via the client drop samba share. The Samba shares are already enabled on all Rutgers KACE Appliances at the System level.
1.	Ensure that the Samba share is also enabled at your ORG level and you know the credentials for the client drop (admin) Samba share. 
o	If not, the password can be reset on the Settings > General Settings page in the Admin UI.
2.	Take note of the client_# and the admin_#, as you will need this information to access the share.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Connect to the client drop share. 
o	This can be done in Windows by opening a Windows Explorer window and typing in the share address for the SMA.
o	The format will be \\kbox#.rutgers.edu\client_#, replacing the kbox# and the client_# with the appropriate appliance/kbox number and share number.
o	Example: "\\kbox5.rutgers.edu\client_8"

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Drag and drop the .zip file (example: "Win10_1903_English_x64.zip") created earlier into the client drop share.
Mapping the Zip with a Software Title
1.	Log into the Admin UI for the KACE appliance your ORG is located in. 
o	 It will be in the format of https://kbox#.rutgers.edu/adminui 
2.	Navigate to Inventory > Software.
3.	Select Choose Action > New.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Fill in the Name, Version, Publisher, and Notes fields as desired.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	In the Custom Inventory Rule we will use the ReleaseId registry value in HKLM\Software\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion to detect the build number. This may not work in all editions/branches of Windows (e.g., LTSB).

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Next, under Upload and Associate File, click on Choose File and select the .zip file you just uploaded to the Samba share from the drop-down. This will automatically move the file into the proper location in the KACE SMA filesystem and remove it from the Samba share.

     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Click Save. Note: After the page is saved and the file is reassigned, Samba can be safely disabled if desired.
Creating the Managed Installation
This Managed Installation is created exactly as you would create any other.
1.	Log into the Admin UI for the KACE appliance your ORG is located in - https://kbox#.rutgers.edu/admin
2.	Navigate to Distribution > Managed Installations.
3.	Select Choose Action > New.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Input a Name (example: Windows 10 x64 Build 1903).
5.	Set the Execution option based on your Organization's environmental requirements and preferences. Note: Something must be chosen other than Disabled or the Managed Install will not deploy.
6.	For the Inventory selection, Software must be selected.
7.	In the Software drop-down, choose the Software Title you created in the previous section.
8.	Select Use associated file under Associated File to use the file you attached to the record in a previous step.
9.	Selecting "Delete downloaded files" can be enabled to purge the installer from the client's cache after installation.

     Error! Filename not specified.
10.	For Installation Options, choose Override default installation, and ensure that "Don't prepend msiexec.exe" is checked.
o	In the Full Command Line, this example shows an auto-upgrade with no UI output at the endpoint and no OOBE upon reboot.
o	A list of all command lines for Windows upgrades can be found here.
o	Full Command Line: setup.exe /auto upgrade /quiet /showoobe none

     Error! Filename not specified.
11.	In the Deploy section, assign the Managed Install to specific labels and devices.
o	We strongly recommend that you test with a small set of machines in a test label before rolling out to a large number of machines.
12.	Configure the Notify section based on your Organization's environmental requirements and preferences.
13.	Configure the Schedule section according to your Organization's environmental requirements and preferences.
o	Note: Adjusting the deployment window is not advised. Managed Installs are only run during the inventory interval. If the scheduled window is not long enough for all systems to run an inventory interval, then affected systems will never attempt to deploy the build upgrade. The Order defines the order in which Managed Installs are run in versus other Managed Installs and their order values. If the value in Maximum Attempts is exceeded due to installation failure, the Managed Install will cease deployment attempts for those devices.
14.	Click Save.
15.	If you wish to run a test immediately, choose Run Now to push out the deployment to all assigned devices; otherwise, the Managed Installation will deploy based on the Execution option.
" KB0012435 LinkedIn Learning Accessing LinkedIn Learning from a mobile device "
A LinkedIn Learning app is available for users on the Google Play Store and the App Store. Below are the steps to download and enter the app for your Rutgers LinkedIn Learning account.
1.	Download and open the LinkedIn Learning app on your mobile device.
2.	After downloading and opening the app, on the main title screen, select Sign in.
3.	Enter your netid@rutgers.edu email address and press Continue. 
4.	Then confirm you want to Continue to Rutgers University.
5.	Enter your NetID and Password on the Rutgers NetID Login screen.
6.	You will be redirected to the main LinkedIn Learning page once you successfully authenticate.
" KB0012547 LinkedIn Learning How to access LinkedIn Learning when you have a LinkedIn account "
Connecting your LinkedIn Learning account to your LinkedIn profile
All LinkedIn Learning users have the option to connect a LinkedIn profile to their LinkedIn Learning account. Connecting your LinkedIn profile will allow for a more personalized learning experience. You will receive course recommendations that are more tailored to your needs based on your professional experience, job title, skills, and industry background listed on your LinkedIn profile. Additionally, you can add any certificates of completion to the certificate section of your LinkedIn profile to showcase your skills.
LinkedIn Learning offers step-by-step instructions on how to connect your LinkedIn Learning account to your LinkedIn profile. If you do not have a LinkedIn profile, you can easily create one through the LinkedIn website.
Logging in when you have a linked account
A linked account requires users to authenticate twice - with your Rutgers NetID login and password, and with your LinkedIn login and password - each time you access LinkedIn Learning.
If you have previously logged in to LinkedIn on your current device, you may not be prompted to log in again, but if you are logging in from a new device or browser you will need to log in with both. If you need to reset your NetID password, you may do so at the NetID Forgotten Password page. If you need to reset your LinkedIn password, you may do so at the LinkedIn Reset Password page.
If you have previously linked your accounts and wish to unlink them, contact software@rutgers.edu.
Questions?
If you have any questions or require additional assistance with LinkedIn Learning, visit the LinkedIn Learning help page or contact your local Help Desk.
" KB0012581 LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning tools tutorial "
Overview
The LinkedIn Learning tools were developed by the Office of Information Technology. They are a set of simple shortcuts that help content creators share valid URLs and other useful information from LinkedIn Learning with users. 
The main focus of the tool is to be able to provide SSO URLs so that users can be properly authenticated through Rutgers Central Authentication for content at Rutgers.
Accessing the Tools
The tools are available at the University Software Portal.
Using the Tools
The tool is essentially a single form input that accepts either Lynda.com URLs, LinkedIn Learning URLs, or LinkedIn Learning URNs.
Although the form morphs depending on which tab is selected at the top, you can enter any type of valid input into the text area. You can even mix and match. Just separate each input by a carriage return (enter).
Sample inputs are provided within each tab. Clicking Try It will fill the text area with the sample value.
 
     Error! Filename not specified.
 
     Error! Filename not specified.
 
When submitting a LinkedIn URL that points to a course, all of the Chapters and Videos are retrieved for that course as well as URL and URN information for the course itself. Each Chapter can be expanded to see the individual Videos that make up the Chapter.
 
     Error! Filename not specified.
 
Videos are displayed with their title, their URN, and some controls to copy the URN to the clipboard or to show the web and SSO URLs for that video. These URLs need to be retrieved as a separate request and will be displayed below the video and in the ‘Get-URN Results’ section.
 
     Error! Filename not specified.
 
     Error! Filename not specified.
 
     Error! Filename not specified.
 
When submitting an URN, the web and SSO URLs for that URN are displayed under its object title in the accordion view. Since a URN may point to any object in LinkedIn Learning (Course, Chapter, Video, Author, etc.), it doesn’t always make sense to display URLs. So, here we provide the option to download the entire object as JSON data, which is just a simple way to represent data that can be easily manipulated in an external application.
 
     Error! Filename not specified.
 
When converting Lynda.com URLs to LinkedIn Learning URLs, the tool accepts two different forms. In some Lynda.com URLs, the URN values are in the URL, and thus, the information can be retrieved with certainty. In other URL forms, we must do a keyword search based on the course stub in the URL itself. As such, we cannot guarantee that every stub-based URL will provide 100% accurate results.
 
     Error! Filename not specified.
 
In the conversion results section, you can either use these URLs directly in the content or copy and paste them into the form to retrieve more detailed information about the course itself.
For any questions or comments about the tool, including any recommendations for improvement, contact software@rutgers.edu.
" KB0012583 LinkedIn Learning Logging into LinkedIn Learning "
The easiest way to access the correct LinkedIn Learning login page is to navigate to the LinkedIn Learning redirect on the Software Portal. That will redirect you to the standard Rutgers Central Authentication Service (CAS) to verify your credentials. You should then be brought to a LinkedIn Learning page with the Rutgers logo in the top right corner.
Alternatively, from the main LinkedIn Learning page you can do the following:
1.	Click Sign In on the top right of the screen.
2.	Enter your NetID@rutgers.edu address and click Continue.
3.	That will redirect you to log in with your NetID and Password.
4.	Successful authentication will redirect you to LinkedIn Learning, displaying the Rutgers logo in the upper right corner.
If you have connected your LinkedIn Learning account to your Linked in profile, you will be required to authenticate twice - with your Rutgers NetID login and password, and with your LinkedIn login and password - each time you access LinkedIn Learning.
If you have previously logged in to LinkedIn on your current device, you may not be prompted to log in again, but if you are logging in from a new device or browser, you will need to log in with both.
Issues logging in 
If you receive an error message, email software@oit.rutgers.edu with your full name and NetID.
" KB0012865 LinkedIn Learning FAQs Am I required to connect my LinkedIn profile to my Rutgers LinkedIn Learning account? "
No. While we recommend connecting your LinkedIn profile to your Rutgers LinkedIn Learning to receive enhanced features and more personalized content recommendations, this is optional. If you change your mind following the transition, you may connect your profile at a later date.
" KB0012873 LinkedIn Learning FAQs Are there any other LinkedIn Learning help and support resources I can reference? "
You can take the How to Use LinkedIn Learning course to learn about the updated platform and new features.
For additional help with LinkedIn Learning courses and resources, visit the LinkedIn Learning help page.
If you have Rutgers-specific account questions, contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0012869 LinkedIn Learning FAQs Can I control what information is displayed on my LinkedIn profile from LinkedIn Learning? "
Yes, any LinkedIn Learning activity will not automatically show on your LinkedIn profile unless you choose to add a completed course. You can do so by following the guide on how to add learning certificates of completion and skills to your LinkedIn profile.
" KB0012864 LinkedIn Learning FAQs Do I need to have a LinkedIn profile to use LinkedIn Learning? "
No. LinkedIn profiles are not required to access LinkedIn Learning. However, connecting your LinkedIn profile to your Rutgers LinkedIn Learning account will allow for a more personalized learning experience. 
" KB0012866 LinkedIn Learning FAQs How do I connect my LinkedIn profile to my Rutgers LinkedIn Learning account? "
Please see the steps below to connect your LinkedIn profile to your Rutgers LinkedIn Learning account:
1.	Log in to your Rutgers LinkedIn Learning account.
2.	Select your photo in the top right corner and select Settings from the dropdown that appears.
3.	Below Connect your LinkedIn account to your LinkedIn Learning account provided by your organization, select Connect my account.
4.	Log into LinkedIn Learning again.
5.	If you agree to the Terms and Privacy Policy, select Accept and continue.
If you have not logged in to your LinkedIn profile in the past six months, the system will direct you to log into it before connecting your profile to your LinkedIn Learning account.
LinkedIn Learning offers additional instructions on how to connect your LinkedIn profile to your LinkedIn Learning account.
" KB0012872 LinkedIn Learning FAQs How do I transfer my history from my personal LinkedIn Learning account to my new Rutgers account? "
If you have both an individual subscription and a Rutgers account on LinkedIn Learning, you can switch between the two accounts, and manage how you choose to share your learning activities with your organization. For specific instructions on how to do this, please visit the LinkedIn Learning help page on how to switch between accounts.
" KB0012874 LinkedIn Learning FAQs What should I do with my LinkedIn Learning account when I graduate or leave the university? "
Once you graduate or leave the university, you should download course completion certificates from your learning history by following the steps on the view and download learning certificates of completion page.
Additionally, you can connect your personal LinkedIn account to your LinkedIn Learning profile by following the steps on the connecting your LinkedIn Learning account to your LinkedIn profile how-to article. This will ensure that if you get access to LinkedIn Learning in the future (either with a personal or organizational account), your past learning history will be available, and you can also add any certificate of completion to your LinkedIn.com profile. 
" KB0012858 LinkedIn Learning FAQs Who has access to LinkedIn Learning? "
Per our licensing agreement, only active faculty, staff, students, and affiliates can access LinkedIn Learning. If you have a specific account question, contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0012867 LinkedIn Learning FAQs Why should I connect my LinkedIn profile to my Rutgers LinkedIn Learning account? "
Connecting your LinkedIn profile will allow for a more personalized learning experience. You will receive course recommendations that are more tailored to your needs based on your professional experience, job title, skills, and industry background listed on your LinkedIn profile. Additionally, you can add any certificates of completion to the certificate section of your LinkedIn profile to showcase your skills.
" KB0012870 LinkedIn Learning FAQs Will my administrator have access to view my LinkedIn activity on my personal account? "
No, your administrator can only see any courses you have completed on your LinkedIn Learning account. The system will not show any activity you do on your LinkedIn profile.
" KB0012459 Mail Relay Mail Relay "
Technologies such as printers, routers, cloud vendors, and HVAC systems sometimes need to send email, but they generally cannot use Rutgers Connect or ScarletMail. To support these products, the Office of Information Technology (OIT) offers a portfolio of mail relay services. 
Access to these services is available through an application. 
Table of Contents
•	Commonly Accepted Usages 
•	Commonly Excluded Usages 
•	Available Services
•	Request Process
•	Exclusion and Audits
Commonly Accepted Usages 
•	Networked printers (e.g. toner/paper notification email)
•	Switches/routers (e.g. operational email)
•	Automated HVAC systems
•	Emergency generators (e.g. fuel status email)
•	Software performing “basic authentication” (i.e. authentication is not performed via OAuth or a similar modern protocol). This software is incompatible with Rutgers cloud email providers
•	Products that are unable to use a password when sending an email. 
Commonly Excluded Usages 
•	Individual email accounts/aliases 
•	Usage from individual computers can be performed using Outlook, webmail, etc. 
•	Products not able to perform email encryption (e.g. SSL or TLS) 
•	Service to shared infrastructure; for example, to an outside vendor that cannot ensure exclusive Rutgers resources
•	Usage by non-Rutgers affiliates 
Software/applications running on dedicated servers, virtual appliances, and vendor-provided IT services will be considered on a case-by-case basis, with consideration to the applicable policies and guidelines. The platform should be formally procured by Rutgers and use appropriate measures that ensure Rutgers IT resources are only provided for Rutgers-related usage. To confirm compatibility, you are encouraged to engage OIT promptly whenever email integrations are required. 
Available Services
OIT currently offers four classes of mail relay service. The request process will guide you to a suggested offering. If you have an explicit service requirement, please note that during the request process. 
•	SMTP AUTH mail sending service: A special NetID and password, allocated to your service and not any one person, is created for your request. Note that this service requires the security of TLS or SSL encryption. Email may be sent as any authorized Rutgers-affiliated email address.
•	IMAP or POP3 mail receiving service: A special NetID and password, allocated to your service and not any one person, is created for your request. A mailbox is created for that special NetID, which will receive email for retrieval (via IMAP or POP3) under the security of TLS encryption. Your Rutgers Connect domain administrator may create an alias in Rutgers Connect that will “hide” the special NetID for marketing purposes. (If the special NetID will only be used by automated processes, a marketing alias is not required.)
•	SMTP AUTH with IMAP or SMTP AUTH with POP3: If there is a requirement to both send and receive email, this offering is a combination of offerings #1 and #2.
•	IP-based mail sending service: The IP address of your University-affiliated device will be permitted to send email, using SMTP, as any authorized Rutgers-affiliated email address. This is the only offering available for devices that cannot ensure the security of a Rutgers NetID and password, such as devices that lack encryption support. This offering is generally restricted to RUNet-connected devices.
Request Process
Mail relay privileges can be requested by the appropriate Administrative or Technical Contact for the device by logging into the request web tool.
Upon submitting a completed online application, the request will be assessed, and its status communicated via email. All accepted and rejected submissions will be acknowledged via email to the submitter. Rejected submissions may also include details on reasons for the rejection and corrective actions that must be taken prior to resubmission. 
Exclusion and Audits
Exemption from NetID authentication does not constitute exemption from the relevant University policies, guidelines, and technical standards. If a device is found in violation, mail relay permission may be denied and/or revoked. Generally, we will first attempt to remedy this situation with the contacts listed on the application. 
OIT reserves the right to conduct audits of devices with mail relay permission. Timely responses to OIT audits are mandatory for continued permission to utilize Rutgers services. 
If a device is excluded, OIT must receive verification that the conditions that led to the device’s exclusion have been corrected and verified prior to reinstatement. 
For more information on the standards of data protection required of authorized devices, please visit Rutgers’  Information Security Compliance Program. 
" KB0012490 Mailman Debugging Mailman error messages "
Table of Contents
•	Post by non-member to a members-only list
•	Post to moderated list
•	Message body is too big: XXXX bytes with a limit of XX KB.
•	Message has implicit destination
•	Too many recipients
Mailman follows several rules when handling mail to be sent to a Mailman list. When a message is forwarded to the Owners and Moderators it is because one of the rules said to check with them first.
Moderation Messages arrive with five pieces of information included in them.
•	List is the name of the Mailman list that requires moderation.
•	From is the email address that sent the message being held.
•	Subject is the Subject of the email.
•	Reason is the reason why Mailman held the message for moderation.
•	And the message body itself.
Below are the most common reasons messages are held for moderation:
Post by non-member to a members-only list
The list is set so only members can send to it, and this message was sent by a non-member.
This often catches owners, as being an owner doesn't give any privileges except editing the configuration of the list. For an owner to send mail to a member only list, they must either subscribe OR add themselves to the accept_these_nonmembers option on the Sender filters page. You can add non-owners to the accept_these_nonmembers to allow them to post without subscribing also.
Post to moderated list
The sender is moderated. This could mean that only this individual user is moderated or that all members of the list are.
To change moderation for just one user, find them on the Membership Management page and un-check mod for them. Submit your changes to save the change.
To change moderation for all users, scroll down to the bottom and select Off under Set everyone's moderation bit, including those members not currently visible and select Set to save.
Message body is too big: XX bytes with a limit of XX KB.
The sender is allowed to send mail, but the size of the mail is larger than the preset limit.
The default limit is 40k, which is a fairly large email and allows for small attachments. You can increase the limit by changing the value of max_message_size option on the General Options page.
However, email is not the best venue for sending large attachments (a list with 500 members, each receiving a 2MB file means 1GB of email). Rutgers recommends that this value is not changed as too many large attachments going out can seriously degrade Mailman service. Any list causing this kind of degradation may be temporarily shut down to preserve the Mailman service. In most cases, you would be better served hosting the attached file on a web page and point to that web page in an email.
Message has implicit destination
This means Mailman received this message but that the message did not have the List Name in either the To or Cc fields.
This most often occurs because the message is forwarded to the list from another person/list or because the mail is spam. Spammers often obscure the list of recipients when they send mail. If you had one list subscribed to another, the mail sent to the parent list would be flagged with this reason. To avoid this, you can go to the Recipient filters and add the parent list name to acceptable_aliases option. Submit your changes to save the change.
Too many recipients
This is mostly a spam interference option. Spammers often send mail with large amounts of recipients listed in the To or Cc fields. This defaults to a limit of 10 recipients. If you find that you are often sending to more than 10 mailing addresses at once, you may want to consider requesting an additional Mailman list.
" KB0012699 Mailman How to create a new mailing list in Mailman "
1.	To create a new list, navigate to the Rutgers Mailman website.
2.	Click Mailman Login.
3.	Select Rutgers CAS Login.
4.	Click Create New List.
5.	Fill out the required information and click Create list.
6.	After creation, you'll be taken to the List admin page, where you can edit the configuration for the list. 
7.	To access all lists you are part of or own, click Lists at the top of the page. 
" KB0012501 Mailman How to edit a Mailman list's configuration "
1.	To edit the configuration for a list, navigate to the Rutgers Mailman website.
2.	Click Mailman Login and then select Rutgers CAS Login to login with your NetID.
3.	Click on the list you are an admin for and wish to edit.
4.	Select the Settings tab at the top.
" KB0012598 Mailman How to view Mailman archives "
1.	To view the archives, navigate to the Rutgers Mailman website.
2.	Click Mailman Login and then select Rutgers CAS Login, or log in with your email address if you are not a Rutgers user.
3.	Click Archives at the top of the page.
4.	In the search field, search for the name of the list you are trying to view archives for.
5.	After selecting the list, you'll be able to view the Archives based on the configuration the list has under its Archiving options. 
" KB0012588 Mailman Mailing lists "
With mailing lists, emails can be sent to multiple people with one click of a button, and groups of people can communicate with ease. The University offers two types of mailing lists for Faculty, Staff, and Students to use.
How the service might be used
Mailing lists are recommended for emailing a large group (50 or more) of individuals. Mailing lists can also be useful for smaller groups, such as a half dozen members of a small department, quickly communicating with one another.
Mailman
Mailman is for University-affiliated ad hoc mailing lists. Examples include lists for department supervisors, club or sport team members, project team members, Route 18 construction alerts, and more.
To obtain a Mailman list, follow the directions on how to create a new mailing list in Mailman.
RAMS official mailing lists
RAMS is the Rutgers Automated Mass-mailing System. It enables the generation of an email list based on demographic information from the registrar or payroll data, and provides for automated updates to the list membership in response to changes in the demographic information.
RAMS lists are intended to be used for communicating official university business to targeted student and employee populations. They are not intended to be a conduit for advertising, commercial solicitations, event promotion, or personal business.
You can create your own class or course RAMS list for those which you have roster privileges, or you may request the creation of a new RAMS list. 
Eligibility
Mailman is available to Faculty, Staff, and Students.
RAMS mailing lists can only be created by Faculty and Staff.
Support information
For more information, visit the Rutgers Mailman website or the Rutgers RAMS website.
Contact the OIT Help Desk for more information or questions.
" KB0013360 Mailman Mailman information and guidelines about creating new Mailman lists "
To facilitate electronic communication among large groups of networked computer users, the Rutgers University Office of Information Technology provides electronic mailing list services to faculty, staff, and students.
Advantages of a Mailing List
A mailing list permits you to address an entire group of predesignated individuals by specifying only one address to your email software – a convenience for contacting groups with whom you correspond frequently and also for sharing information among people with common interests. If you want to send an email to a large group of people at once, then a mailing list is most likely an effective means for delivering information.
Guidelines for Mailing List Creation and Use
The Mailman service has usage restrictions regarding Protected Health Information (PHI) or other confidential University information. This service must not be used to communicate or store University-restricted data or patient Protected Health Information (PHI). Doing so represents a violation of the Federal HIPAA Privacy/Security rules, State Privacy Laws, or University policies. Users will be responsible for complying with any restricted data as defined in University Policy.
For additional information regarding restricted data, please reference the Information Classification Policy [Rutgers Policy Library]. Any further questions or concerns, please contact the OIT Help Desk.
Who can request a mailing list?
Any individual with a valid Rutgers University NetID can request the creation of a mailing list. A list can be established for your department, working group, or organization.
Scope and Usage of Mailing Lists
All lists must be used for University-related business/activities. While individuals and groups outside of the University are welcome to subscribe (add their email addresses) to lists maintained at Rutgers, they will not be permitted to set up mailing lists.
Responsibilities of the List Administrator
Only individuals with a valid Rutgers University NetID may serve as a list administrator, and the default email address used for list administrators will be of the form NetID@rutgers.edu. In all cases, the list must have a designated administrator responsible for its maintenance. These responsibilities include, but are not limited to, maintaining an up-to-date list of members. Invalid email addresses subscribed to a list can unnecessarily overburden Rutgers’ systems and personnel resources. For these reasons, the Rutgers Mailman Service Administrator may take action to help maintain lists.
In response to potential consequences to the Mailman service (i.e., risk of blacklisting by third parties and performance degradation) if issues arise concerning a list, the administrators for that list will be contacted via email and have 10 business days to acknowledge and/or fix the issues; otherwise, the list will be deactivated. Upon deactivation, it is the responsibility of the list administrators to contact help@email.rutgers.edu to facilitate the resolution of any issues. Once the issues have been resolved and confirmed, the list will be reactivated in 1-2 business days.
If there are complaints about the management of the list, they should be addressed with the list administrator; if this is not possible, the complaints should be escalated to the manager or dean who has disciplinary authority over the list administrator. If infractions of the University Code of Student Conduct are brought to our attention, e.g. lists promoting prejudices, biases, or illegal activities, OIT will bring this to the attention of the administrator and if need be, to disciplinary authorities.
Mailing List Review
The established mailing lists will be reviewed periodically. Twice a year, a review may occur for every list that has not been posted in over a year. This review may include, but is not limited to, verifying whether the list is still actively used and/or validating the email addresses of the list administrators. If no action is taken regarding any inquiries made to the list administrators within one week, we will attempt to contact them again. Failing confirmation a second time, the list will be removed. During the review, the lists must be successfully posted to keep the list active.
Requesting a Mailing List
After a successful Rutgers CAS login, prospective list administrators will see a Create New List button.
Deleting a Mailing List
List owners can delete a list (all settings and membership data will be lost) by using the Delete button located on the list's management page. The list deletion is permanent and cannot be recovered. 
Note: List archives are NOT deleted. Please see the next section on how to request that they be deleted as well.
Deleting a Mailing List Archive
List owners must send an email requesting archive deletion to help@email.rutgers.edu from their owner email address. Ensure that you provide the list name.
" KB0018487 Mailman Managing display names in Mailman "
You cannot modify the display names of individuals subscribed to your Mailman list. 
If a person has a Mailman account set up using an email address on your list, the display name configured in their account's profile settings will always be displayed. This includes cases where their account has no First or Last name specified, resulting in no name being displayed associated with their email address. 
To fix an incorrect or missing display name, the individual on the list must do the following:
1.	Log in to Rutgers Mailman, either with CAS if you have a NetID and use a Rutgers email address for the list, or with your email address and password if you don't. 
2.	Click the person icon in the top right. 
3.	Choose Account. 
4.	Add a First name and Last name on their profile. 
5.	Click Save. 
" KB0018495 Mailman Viewing Mailman List Archives "
Effective April 29, 2025, viewing Mailman mailing list archives will require you to be on campus or using the Rutgers Virtual Private Network (VPN) if you are off campus.
" KB0012723 Mailman What is a Mailman mailing list? "
A mailing list permits you to address an entire group of designated individuals by specifying only one address to your email software. This is very convenient for contacting groups with whom you correspond frequently, or for sharing information among people with common interests. If you want to send an email to a large group of people at once, a mailing list is likely one of the most effective means for delivering information.
Mailing lists are recommended for emailing a large group (50 or more) of individuals. Mailing lists can also be useful for smaller groups, such as a half dozen members of a small department, quickly communicating with one another.
Rutgers University Computing Services offers two different options for mailing lists, Mailman and RAMS.
What is Mailman?
Mailman is software for managing electronic mailing lists. It is used for University-affiliated ad hoc mailing lists. Examples include lists for department supervisors, club or sports team members, project team members, Route 18 construction alerts, and more.
Mailman is integrated with the web, making it easy for users to manage their accounts and for list owners to administer their lists. It supports built-in archiving, automatic bounce processing, content filtering, digest delivery, spam filters, and more.
Mailman is freeware distributed under the GNU General Public License.
More information on Mailman can be found on the GNU Mailing List Manager - Main Mailman site. 
Why do we use Mailman?
As the university's needs grew, it became evident that our previous mailing list could not scale to our needs. At times, the service was so busy that web browsers would time out before the service could process the web requests. The previous system also sometimes experienced several hours of delays in delivering mail.
Mailman has met these needs without any problems.
Where is Mailman hosted?
More information and the login page can be found on the Rutgers Mailman website. 
What is RAMS?
The Rutgers Automated Mass-mailing System (RAMS) enables the generation of an email list based on demographic information from the registrar or payroll data, and provides automated updates to the list membership in response to changes in the demographic information. Examples include all students in New Brunswick, all students in a single course, all third-year students, and more.
RAMS may be a better choice for you if you intend to use your mailing list to contact specific groups or categories of Rutgers users.
" KB0013401 Mailman 3 How to login to Mailman 3 "
1.	Navigate to the Rutgers Mailman page and select Mailman log in.
2.	If you are a Rutgers user, choose the option to use your Rutgers CAS login. You will be prompted to log in with your NetID and password.
3.	If you do not have a Rutgers NetID, log in with your personal email address and password. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	You will see the following screen after you have successfully logged in, and you will be able to view the mailing lists you are subscribed to or own. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0013406 Mailman 3 How to perform actions on held Mailman messages "
As an owner and/or moderator, you may receive an email about recently posted messages to a Mailman list that require your approval, like the example below:
Error! Filename not specified.
Approving messages
1.	Select the link contained in the email, or log in to Mailman.
2.	Select the Held messages tab on the admin page for that specific list.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	After you select the message or messages by checking the box next to them, you can select an action (Accept, Reject, or Discard). Afterward, you will see a message saying the selected messages were either Accepted, Rejected, or Discarded based on the action you chose.

     Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0013402 Mailman 3 How to update and verify email addresses affiliated with your Mailman account "
If a mailing list that you own, moderate or subscribe to is not appearing after you login, you can use these steps to update and verify the email addresses associated with your Mailman account.
1.	First, follow the instructions on how to login to Mailman.
2.	Once logged in, select your NetID in the top right corner, and choose Account from the drop down menu.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	From the account screen, select the E-mail Addresses tab. You will see all email addresses associated with your account. You can use the option on this page to add additional email addresses if needed by entering the address and selecting Add E-mail.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	After you've added an email, you will see a "Confirmation e-mail sent to..." message, along with an unverified tag next to the newly added address.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Once an email address is added, you will need to confirm it by clicking the link in the confirmation email that is sent. If you do not receive the email, you can select the option to resend verification.

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Once you click the link, you will be redirected. Click Confirm. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Once done, you will see confirmation that your email has been added successfully. 
" KB0015563 Mass Comms and Emergency Notifications Sender Authentication policy outline "
Table of Contents
•	Motivation for Policy
•	General Risk Mitigation Policy
•	Policy Per Technology 
o	Domain Message Authentication Reporting (DMARC)
o	Domain Keys Identified Mail (DKIM)
o	Sender Policy Framework (SPF)
•	Policy Per Domain 
o	Utility Domains
o	Rutgers.edu
o	Camden.rutgers.edu
o	Newark.rutgers.edu
o	ScarletMail.rutgers.edu
o	Connect Hosted Domains
o	Web Page Domains
Motivation for Policy
MaCS stands by the existing recommended guidelines for 3rd party mailers for achieving DMARC compatible sender authentication. (See document) Utility domains issued per service are the most flexible and robust solution, so they are our general recommendation. However, when a vendor/unit can't or won't abide by the guidelines, there are still limitations we must place on the process for practical, technical, or security reasons. Our policy is designed to minimize these risks and prevent them from being delegated upward without clear communication and collaboration.
General Risk Mitigation Policy
With sender authentication, there is a general risk that vendor configurations may be fine individually, but mutually incompatible. When such incompatibility arises, MaCS will prioritize the function of day-to-day email service and broadly shared services. Using utility domains minimizes the chance of being impacted by such mitigations.
Policy Per Technology
Domain Message Authentication Reporting (DMARC)
A policy of quarantine will be implemented on the Rutgers.edu root domain. This policy will be configured to apply to all subdomains of Rutgers.edu by default. If a subdomain has no DMARC policy of its own, the Rutgers.edu policy will be used per the RFC for DMARC. If any subdomain wishes to have a policy of 'none' or 'quarantine', those can be set per subdomain by request. Note: a policy of one may not practically differ from a policy of quarantine with some free email vendors, as they will use a failure of DMARC alignment in spam scoring and deliver both spam and quarantined mail to a user's junk folder.
Domain Keys Identified Mail (DKIM)
DKIM uses cryptographic hashes to validate the authenticity of an email. The public key must be published directly in a TXT record, or a pointer to the key must be published via a CNAME record.
If a vendor uses a shared, default TXT record for all customers, we recommend avoiding that vendor. If that vendor must be used, it will be restricted to use with a utility domain. This is because without proper policy enforcement by the vendor, there is a potential for one customer to exploit this at the expense of other customers. Additionally, if the private key is compromised, replacing a key due to compromise or obsolescence requires coordinated action between the vendor and all customers, or the vendor to disable the service without warning until customers can comply. It generally indicates a lack of understanding or care on the part of the vendor, and the risk that this implies must be minimized.
Many vendors use shared common CNAME records to publish one or more keys. This permits the vendor to replace the key(s) in short order if they become obsolete or are compromised. However, they are still prone to potential customer-to-customer exploitation. These can be used with utility domains and with connect-hosted domains if they do not delegate risk upward.
Some vendors use TXT records, but they are unique to each domain and customer account. While these still require a service outage or customer coordination to replace, they are at least safe from customer-to-customer exploitation. These can be used with utility domains and connect hosted domains. The university customer is responsible for requesting any maintenance.
Some vendors use multiple CNAME records, each unique to a specific domain and account. These are the gold standard for DKIM implementation and can be maintenance-free for life. However, the vendor may decide to change them periodically anyway. These can be used with utility domains and connect hosted domains. The university customer is responsible for requesting any maintenance. 
Sender Policy Framework (SPF)
SPF requires a domain owner to publish a TXT record indicating all machines designated as permitted email senders for that domain. Unfortunately, the method used can result in lookup loops. To prevent unintentional denial of service from a single initial query, SPF is limited to 10 lookups for any entity not explicitly referenced as an IP address. This is extremely limiting for an entity as large as Rutgers that has a complex IT infrastructure. It is also limiting when including cloud services due to the scale and dynamic nature of large cloud infrastructure. Most of Rutgers' email infrastructure involves significant on-premises infrastructure and both Google and Microsoft cloud infrastructure. This is sufficient to experience intermittent failure due to the ten-lookup limit. Adding more cloud vendors that themselves may be built on top of yet more cloud vendors would exacerbate this problem. SPF is limited to utility domains.
Policy Per Domain
Utility Domains
Utility domains are simply subdomains requested by the customer. They must not be in use, confusing, offensive, or otherwise problematic. They must use either vendor systems for inbound mail handling, or MaCS' XARE aliasing system. We recommend that they be used in a one-service-per-utility-domain configuration, but they may be shared across multiple vendors, provided the customer is willing to accept the risks that entails. MaCS does not monitor utility domains for any changes that might impact services. After initial configuration assistance, they are the customer's responsibility.
Rutgers.edu
The Rutgers.edu domain is a highly shared resource severely vulnerable to impersonation abuse and vendor collisions. Use of this domain with vendors is restricted to centrally administered services shared across the university and groups with broad central authority (e.g. President's Office).  This domain cannot accommodate SPF, and cannot use shared DKIM keys for security reasons. Not all uses eligible to use this domain by policy may be technically compatible.
Camden.rutgers.edu
Camden.rutgers.edu is a highly shared resource vulnerable to impersonation abuse and vendor collisions. Use of this domain with vendors is restricted to campus services shared across the campus and groups with broad campus authority (e.g. Chancellor's Office).  This domain cannot accommodate SPF, and cannot use shared DKIM keys for security reasons. Not all uses eligible to use this domain by policy may be technically compatible.
Newark.rutgers.edu
Newark.rutgers.edu is a highly shared resource vulnerable to impersonation abuse and vendor collisions. Use of this domain with vendors is restricted to campus services shared across the campus and groups with broad campus authority (e.g. Chancellor's Office).  This domain cannot accommodate SPF, and cannot use shared DKIM keys for security reasons. Not all uses eligible to use this domain by policy may be technically compatible.
ScarletMail.rutgers.edu
Scarletmail.rutgers.edu is a highly shared resource that is supposed to be exclusively for student, alumni, and retiree email. It is not to be used for official communications. This domain cannot accommodate SPF, and cannot use shared DKIM keys for security reasons. Not all uses eligible to use this domain by policy may be technically compatible.
Connect Hosted Domains
We recommend against using these domains with bulk vendors. This domain cannot accommodate SPF. MaCS discourages the use of common/shared DKIM keys on these domains. If the customer chooses to accept that risk, MaCS is not responsible for any negative consequences. If those consequences impact day-to-day email services, MaCS will disable any offending sender auth configs immediately and without warning if necessary to preserve service functionality. Not all uses eligible to use this domain by policy may be technically compatible.
Web Page Domains
Generally, subdomains used to host web pages may be used as utility domains if they have no existing MX record. If the subdomain uses a CNAME record, it cannot be used as a utility domain as it can't have an MX set. Additionally, DKIM and DMARC require subdomains of the subdomain to be configured, and CNAME records cannot have subdomains. Due to this, they may be technically excluded from use. MaCS will offer advice for configuring these subdomains as utility domains, but the customer is responsible for ensuring that any suggested changes are not incompatible with existing uses of the subdomain.
" KB0019724 Microsoft Microsoft 365 Copilot Agents "
Microsoft-provided Copilot agents are now available to any department or individual who has purchased a Microsoft 365 Copilot license through the Rutgers Software Portal.
You can browse the full list of Microsoft 365 agents on Microsoft's adoption page.
Below is a summary of what has been enabled as of June 2026:
•	Planner Agent – Provides intelligent project insights, task prioritization, and automation for Planner.
•	Plan My Day – Compiles a morning briefing from your Microsoft 365 data to start your day organized.
•	Excel (Agent) – Create Excel workbooks using natural language, right from Copilot Chat.
•	Word (Agent) – Draft Word documents using natural language, without opening Word.
•	PowerPoint (Agent) – Build presentations using natural language, without opening PowerPoint.
•	Surveys (Forms Agent) – Create, distribute, and analyze Microsoft Forms surveys from Copilot Chat.
•	Researcher – Conducts deep, multi-step research using your work data and the web.
•	Analyst – Transforms raw data into insights and visualizations, functioning like an on-demand data scientist.
•	Study and Learn – An interactive, conversational learning agent designed for students.
•	Learning Agent – Delivers personalized, in-the-flow AI and Copilot skill-building tailored to each user's role and daily activity.
•	AI Learning Advisor – Teaches and troubleshoots Microsoft's AI and low-code stack, including Copilot, Copilot Studio, and Power Platform.
•	Career Coach – Helps students and employees set goals, assess skill gaps, and navigate career paths.
•	Writing Coach – Provides AI-powered feedback to help users write with more clarity and impact.
•	Learning Coach – Helps users master subjects and create tailored study plans.
•	Idea Coach – Guides users through generating and refining ideas into actionable plans.
•	Prompt Coach – Teaches users how to write more effective prompts to get better results from Copilot.
•	SharePoint Page Agent – Automates the creation of SharePoint news posts and pages from Copilot conversations.
•	SharePoint List Agent – Makes creating SharePoint lists simple and conversational.
Not all available agents have been enabled for Rutgers accounts. For example, after a thorough investigation, Copilot Cowork was not enabled and remains unavailable for Rutgers accounts due to additional licensing and costs. 
Microsoft does not allow agents to be hidden that haven't been enabled yet. You may see additional agents in the Copilot store that you can't actually access. If you try to open one, you will see the message: "You don't have access to this agent. You'll need to request access from your IT admin." At this time, only the agents listed above have been enabled for Rutgers accounts. 
 
" KB0011708 Microsoft "Microsoft Azure Dev Tools for Teaching - Visio, Project, and Access" KB0018545 Microsoft Microsoft Copilot Pro License "
Copilot Pro is currently not a part of our license with Microsoft. However, the Office of Information Technology is currently in the process of evaluating how to make Copilot Pro licenses available.
" KB0013795 Microsoft Microsoft Project access and software download "
Options to access Microsoft Project:
•	Project on the web through Office 365 (offers View Only functionality) is available to any user at the University.
•	Project through Microsoft Azure Dev Tools for Teaching is available to Faculty and Students for class work only.
•	Project Professional 2019 is available to all University users through the Virtual Computer Labs for classwork only.
•	Project Plan 3 (includes software download) is available to Faculty and Staff after purchase through the Software Portal.
•	Project Plan 5 (includes software download) is available to Faculty and Staff after purchase through the Software Portal.
Compare the differences for Project on the web for 365, Plan 3, and Plan 5
Compare the differences for Project Online for Plan 3 and Plan 5
See the available features for the Project Online Desktop application available for Plan 3 and Plan 5
 
Note for Plan 3 and Plan 5: 
•	Access Project and the software download (Plans 3 and 5 only) may not be available for up to an hour after you receive an email that your order has been fulfilled. 
•	A Rutgers Connect account is required for this product.
•	This software download for Project will only work if you have the "Click to Run" version of Office installed from Connect. 
•	Subscriptions are limited to one per Connect account.
•	The ordering process requires each subscription to be a separate order.
•	Orders may be placed on behalf of another person.
How to access Project through the web (for 365, Plan 3 and Plan 5)
1.	Log into your Rutgers Connect account.
2.	After logging in, click the app switcher icon in the top left.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click More Apps 
4.	On the page, go to "Explore by Category" section > Project
5.	You will now see the welcome screen.
How to download software (for Plan 3 and Plan 5 only)
1.	Log into your Rutgers Connect account.
2.	After logging in, click the app switcher icon in the top left.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click Microsoft 365.
4.	Click on Install and more located on the upper right-hand side of the page.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Choose the Install Microsoft 365 apps option. 
6.	Locate Project in your Apps & Devices section and click Install Project. Project is not available for Mac and will only appear if you are on a Windows device. 
Note: This version of Project will only work if you have the "Click to Run" version of Office installed from Connect. This is the Install Office option on this page.
Error! Filename not specified.
 
" KB0011593 Microsoft Obtaining Microsoft Windows 10 or 11 Education for Students Only "
This is for students only. Faculty/staff members should utilize the Microsoft Office for faculty/staff knowledge article.
1.	Windows 10 or Windows 11 Education can only be accessed through the University Software Portal.
2.	Select the link for Azure for Education Website. 
3.	Select Sign In.
4.	Sign in using your Rutgers Connect email address and NetID password at the Azure for Education website. This should be in the format NetID@[domain].rutgers.edu. If you do not know your Connect login, please check the email management tool to determine which email to use. For most students, this will be NetID@scarletmail.rutgers.edu unless you are in RBHS or have a PHI Y flag. 
5.	You should see the download software section. If you do not, select Learning Resources > Software on the left-hand side. 
6.	Select the Windows OS Education version you want to download.
7.	Select View Key and store the Key in a safe place for future reference. 
8.	If you do not see Windows OS Education available to download, you can open a support ticket with Microsoft through their Support Portal.
" KB0013783 Microsoft Power Apps access "
Options to access Power Apps
•	Power Apps Per User Plan is available to Faculty and Staff after purchase through the Software Portal.
•	Power Apps through Office 365 is available to all Faculty and Staff. Also, select Guests and Students who qualify (those eligible for a Connect Mailbox).
Compare the differences between Power Apps Per User Plan and Power Apps through 365
Requirements
Starting February 1st, 2025, all Apps must be run in a dedicated Environment. Before using Power Apps, you must obtain an Environment by following these steps.
1.	Contact your Local Delegated Administrator to start your request. 
2.	Your Delegated Administrator must submit the Power Apps and Power Automate Environment Request Form on your behalf. Alternatively, they may give you access to an existing departmental Environment. 
3.	Confirm with them once this is completed and ensure you can access the Environment they provided. 
Please note for the Power Apps Per User Plan: 
•	Access may not be available for up to an hour after you receive an email that your order has been fulfilled. 
•	This is an “as is” product; therefore, no technical support is provided, and the subscription is non-returnable.
•	A Rutgers Connect account is required for this product.
•	Subscriptions are limited to one per Connect account.
•	Add the software to your cart and proceed to check out.
•	To place an order for another user(s), use the dropdown at checkout and select Checkout Distribute. 
•	Follow the instructions on how to pay for your order.
How to access Power Apps through 365 and the Power Apps Per User Plan
1.	Log in to Rutgers Connect and click on the menu button.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click All apps to expand your menu.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Here you will find your access to Power Apps.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	You will now see the welcome screen.
" KB0013784 Microsoft Power Automate Access and Software Download "
Options to access Power Automate (formerly known as Flow)
•	Power Automate Per User Plan is available to Faculty and Staff after purchase through the Software Portal.
•	Power Automate through Office 365 is available to all Faculty and Staff. Also, select Guests and Students who qualify (those eligible for a Connect Mailbox).
Compare the differences between Power Apps Per User Plan and Power Apps through 365.
Requirements
Starting February 1st, 2025, all Power Automate flows must be run in a dedicated Environment. Before using Power Automate, you must obtain an Environment by following these steps.
1.	Contact your Local Delegated Administrator to start your request. 
2.	Your Delegated Administrator must submit the Power Apps and Power Automate Environment Request Form on your behalf. Alternatively, they may give you access to an existing departmental Environment. 
3.	Confirm with them once this is completed, and ensure you can access the Environment they provided. 
Please note for the Power Automate Per User Plan: 
•	Access may not be available for up to an hour after you receive an email that your order has been fulfilled. 
•	This is an “as is” produc,t and no technical support is provided; in addition, the subscription is not eligible to be returned.
•	A Rutgers Connect account is required for this product.
•	Subscriptions are limited to one per Connect account.
•	Add the software to your cart and proceed to check out.
•	To place an order for another user(s), use the dropdown at checkout and select Checkout Distribute. 
•	Follow the instructions on how to pay for your order.
How to access Power Automate through 365 and the Power Automate Per User Plan
1.	Log in to Rutgers Connect and click on the menu button.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click All apps to expand your menu.

      Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Here you will find your access to Power Automate.

    Error! Filename not specified.
4.	You will now see the welcome screen.
Download the Power Automate Desktop Application or Browser Plug-Ins
You can install the desktop application via an .exe file: Install Power Automate using the MSI installer Guide
Alternatively, you can install the browser plug-in: Install Power Automate from the Microsoft Store Guide
" KB0013744 Microsoft Power BI access and software download "
Options to access Power BI
•	Power BI Pro Online per user (includes Power BI Desktop) is available to Faculty and Staff after purchase through the Software Portal.
•	Power BI Premium per user (includes Power BI Desktop) is available to Faculty and Staff after purchase through the Software Portal.
•	Power BI on the web through Office 365 is available to Faculty and Staff.
o	To request access to this free version, contact your Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator to have them enable it for your account. 
Compare the differences between Power BI Pro, Premium Per User Online, and Power BI (free account) on the web through Office 365
 
Please note for Power BI Pro Online: 
•	Access may not be available for up to an hour after you receive an email that your order has been fulfilled. 
•	A Rutgers Connect account is required for this product.
•	Subscriptions are limited to one per Connect account.
•	Orders may be placed on behalf of another person.
How to access both Power BI Pro Online and Power BI on the Web
1.	Log in to Rutgers Connect and click on the menu button.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click All apps to expand your menu.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Here you will find your access to Power BI.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	You will now see the welcome screen.

     Error! Filename not specified.
To download the Power BI Desktop application 
Review Microsoft's instructions on downloading the app through the Microsoft Store or directly through an .exe file.
" KB0013743 Microsoft Visio access and software download "
Options For Accessing Visio
Options to access Visio:
•	Visio on the web through Office 365 is available to any user at the University
•	Visio through Microsoft Azure Dev Tools for Teaching is available to Faculty and Students for class work only
•	Visio Professional 2019 is available to any user at the University through the Virtual Computer Labs for class work only
•	Visio Online Plan 2 (includes software download) is available to Faculty and Staff after purchase through the Software Portal
Compare the differences between Visio on the Web through 365 and Visio Online Plan 2
Compare the differences between Visio Professional 2019 and Visio Online Plan 2
Visio Online Plan 2
Note for Visio Online Plan 2: 
•	Access and the software download may not be available for up to an hour after you receive an email that your order has been fulfilled. 
•	A Rutgers Connect account is required for this product.
•	This version of Visio will only work if you have the "Click to Run" version of Office installed from Connect. 
•	Subscriptions are limited to one per Connect account.
•	Orders may be placed on behalf of another person.
How to access Visio on the Web and Visio Online Plan 2
1.	Log in to your Rutgers Connect account.
2.	After logging in, click the app switcher icon in the top left.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click More Apps 
4.	On the page, go to "Explore by Category" section > Visio

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	You will now see the welcome screen.
How to download software (Visio Online Plan 2 only)
1.	Log in to your Rutgers Connect account.
2.	After logging in, click the app switcher icon in the top left.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click Microsoft 365.
4.	Click on Install and more located on the upper right-hand side of the page.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Choose the Install Microsoft 365 apps option. 
6.	Locate Project in your Apps & Devices section and click Install Visio. Visio is not available for Mac and will only appear if you are on a Windows device. 
Note: This version of Visio will only work if you have the "Click to Run" version of Office installed from Connect. This is the Install Office option on this page:

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0013634 Microsoft Windows Activation for University Owned Equipment Only "
Key Management Server (KMS) Method
To activate Windows, the simplest method is to use a Key Management Server (KMS). The Rutgers KMS has the hostname kms.rutgers.edu. If your machine is connected to the Rutgers Active Directory (RAD), you will automatically attempt to activate against the Rutgers KMS host and you may not even need to perform the activation process manually. However, if you have not been able to activate automatically, follow the procedure below to activate against the Rutgers KMS host.
1.	Open an elevated/administrator command prompt.
2.	Click Start > type cmd > right click Command Prompt > Run as Administrator > Click Yes on the UAC prompt 
o	Type the following 2 lines and press enter after each one. 
	cscript %windir%\system32\slmgr.vbs /skms kms.rutgers.edu
	cscript %windir%\system32\slmgr.vbs /ato
Multiple Activation Key (MAK) Method
The second option for activating Windows is typically best for machines that cannot contact the KMS host frequently enough to maintain activation. This method is called Multiple Activation Key (MAK).
•	Obtain your MAK from the My Software section of the Software Portal.
•	The key will be found in the License section next to your Windows product listing.
Once you have obtained the key, you can enter it in two ways:
1.	From the System control panel: 
o	Windows Key + Pause/Break
2.	From the command line as follows:
1.	Open an elevated/administrator command prompt.
2.	Click Start > type cmd > right click Command Prompt > Run as Administrator > Click Yes on the UAC prompt.
3.	Type the following 2 lines and press enter after each one. 
	cscript %windir%\system32\slmgr.vbs /ipk YOUR_MAK
	cscript %windir%\system32\slmgr.vbs /ato
" KB0012880 Microsoft EES FAQ "Can Faculty, Staff and Students use Microsoft EES software on personally owned equipment?" "
Rutgers Faculty and Staff can access free Office 365 for use on personally owned equipment.
Students have access to free Office 365 and Windows OS.
Visit the University Software Portal for detailed information on individual products.
" KB0012884 Microsoft EES FAQ Do the server licenses include Software Assurance with License Mobility? "
Yes, Software Assurance for the included server products provides for license mobility. Visit the University Software Portal for detailed information on individual products.
" KB0012885 Microsoft EES FAQ Does the Enterprise CALs cover accessing a Windows Remote Desktop Services Server? "
No, the Enterprise CAL to which we have rights as part of the Microsoft EES agreement does not include Terminal Server or Remote Desktop CALs. They may be purchased via the software portal Microsoft Windows Remote Desktop Services User CAL.
" KB0012879 Microsoft EES FAQ Does the Microsoft EES agreement include license to the full version of the Windows OS? "
Yes, however, in order to install the Microsoft Windows operating system, you must already have a valid license for another version of Windows on the computer.
For equipment purchased without an operating system, with a competing operating system (Red Hat, Solaris, etc.), or without a valid Microsoft OS license, you must first purchase a full version license of a supported Windows operating system from resellers such as SHI, CDWG, Dell, etc.
Subsequent upgrades will then be covered under the Microsoft EES Agreement. The exception to this rule is that Boot Camp under OS X is considered a valid operating system for upgrading.
" KB0012883 Microsoft EES FAQ Does the Microsoft EES include server software? "
Yes, the following Microsoft server software is included in our Microsoft EES agreement.
•	Windows
•	Exchange
•	Sharepoint
•	Skype
•	Microsoft SQL Server
" KB0012881 Microsoft EES FAQ How do I access Microsoft software? "
To access Microsoft software, go to the University Software Portal. Use the search box at the top of the screen to find the specific product you are looking for.
" KB0012882 Microsoft EES FAQ Is Visio or Project included in the Microsoft software campus Microsoft EES agreement? "
Visit the respective articles for Visio and Project for more information on available options.
" KB0012878 Microsoft EES FAQ What is the cost to my department?
The products covered under the Microsoft EES agreement are offered at no charge to departments.
KB0012875 Microsoft EES FAQ What is the Microsoft campus EES agreement?
Rutgers University and Microsoft Corporation have entered into a cost-effective licensing agreement of selected Microsoft products and upgrades.
KB0012887 Microsoft EES FAQ What level of support is provided by the Microsoft EES Agreement? "
The Microsoft EES agreement does not include support. For Microsoft support, follow the steps below.
1.	Visit the Microsoft support web page and select your product from the list to see if there is a question and an answer related to your issue.
2.	Search Microsoft’s Knowledge Base for the same or similar symptoms. Common problems and their solutions or workarounds can often be found here. You can do so by using the search field on their support page. 
3.	Faculty, Staff, and Guests can contact their local delegated IT Administrators for additional assistance. 
4.	Contact Microsoft support directly. Microsoft's paid support does have a cost per incident for both online and telephone support. Reminder: Microsoft EES products are not eligible for no-charge support.
" KB0012876 Microsoft EES FAQ What products are covered by the Microsoft EES Agreement? "
The Microsoft EES (Enrollment for Education Solutions) agreement covers the licensing of various Microsoft products at Rutgers University. 
The standard coverage in the agreement includes:
•	Windows OS upgrade
•	Office Professional
•	SQL and Enterprise CALs (Client Access License)
•	System Center CMLs (Client Management License)
•	Windows, Exchange, SharePoint, Skype, and SQL Server
•	Faculty, Staff and Students CALs for the above server products
•	Office 365 Advanced Threat Protection (ATP)
For more information, visit the Rutgers IT Webpage for Microsoft Enrollment for Education Solutions. Visit the University Software Portal for detailed information on individual products.
" KB0012886 Microsoft EES FAQ Where can I get service packs/updates for Microsoft software products? "
A service pack (SP) is a Windows update that often combines previously released updates, helping to make Windows more reliable. These can include security and performance enhancements, as well as support for new types of hardware. Ensure you have the latest Windows Updates on your device.
Follow the instructions for installing the latest Windows updates. 
" KB0012877 Microsoft EES FAQ Who can use the EES? "
Rutgers Faculty, Staff, and Students (for specific products) with an active role at the University.
Visit the University Software Portal for details on product availability.
" KB0012889 Microsoft SharePoint FAQ How can I find and access SharePoint sites that I have been given access to? "
1.	Log in to Rutgers Connect with your Rutgers NetID credentials (netid@domain.rutgers.edu and NetID password).
2.	Navigate to the SharePoint start page by selecting the SharePoint tile in the app launcher (top left corner).
3.	The start page displays various information about the SharePoint sites you have access to.
Visit the Microsoft Support article to learn more about the SharePoint start page. 
" KB0012890 Microsoft SharePoint FAQ How do I create a SharePoint site? "
In order to create a SharePoint site, contact your Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator. 
" KB0012891 Microsoft SharePoint FAQ How do I view all site content on a SharePoint site? "
On the respective site, click on the gear icon, then select Site contents in the top right. Subsites, Document libraries, and Lists (Calendars, Contact Lists, Wikis) are listed on the Site Contents page for easy navigation.
" KB0012892 Microsoft SharePoint FAQ How does SharePoint integrate with other Microsoft services? "
SharePoint integrates with a wide range of Microsoft services, including Microsoft Teams and OneDrive. In Microsoft Teams, you automatically have a SharePoint site associated with each team, where channels and documents are stored. Using OneDrive, which is built on SharePoint, to store files for use in Microsoft Teams offers several advantages, including the ability to access and co-author documents directly within Teams.
" KB0012893 Microsoft SharePoint FAQ What Internet browsers are supported for using SharePoint Online? "
SharePoint Online works best with these browsers.
" KB0012888 Microsoft SharePoint FAQ What is SharePoint Online? "
Microsoft SharePoint Online is a content management system that is part of the Office 365 suite of services. SharePoint provides a rich collaboration environment in which internal and external users can work together, manage content, and communicate information using a variety of SharePoint intranets and sites. Many of the functionalities that SharePoint has to offer, integrate with a variety of Office 365 services such as Teams, OneDrive, Exchange, Forms, Power Automate and PowerApps.
" KB0012470 Microsoft Teams Chatting and collaborating in Microsoft Teams "
Table of Contents
•	Start a new conversation
•	Reply to a conversation
•	Have fun with emojis and stickers
•	Post something
•	@mention someone
•	Stay on top of things with Activity and notifications
•	Search for messages, people, or files
•	Adding Integrations
•	Meetings
Start a new conversation
When you have a new topic or idea to introduce to the team, you can start a new conversation.
1.	Select a team and channel.
2.	In the Start a new conversation box, add your message and press Enter.
Error! Filename not specified.
Reply to a conversation
Conversations in channels are organized by date and then threaded. The replies in threaded conversations are organized under the initial conversation and are easier to follow.
1.	Find the conversation thread you want to reply to.
2.	Select Reply, add your message, and press Enter.
Error! Filename not specified.
Have fun with emojis and stickers
Express yourself and impress co-workers with customized stickers.
1.	Select Teams, and then select a channel.
2.	Select the Error! Filename not specified.icon in the compose message box.
3.	Select the desired sticker package.
4.	Select a sticker, enter a fun caption and select Done.
Error! Filename not specified.
Post something
1.	Select a channel, and then select Files.
2.	Select Upload, select a file and then Open.
Alternatively, select Conversations, use the @ symbol to mention someone, and attach a file.
@mention someone
When you want someone to receive a notification for a message you’re sending, you can @mention the person. You can @mention a channel, a team, a person, or several people at once.
1.	In the Reply or New Conversation box, type the @ symbol, then type the first few letters of the person’s first name.
2.	In the Suggestions box, select the person you want to suggest. Repeat for as many people as you want to @mention.
3.	For those whom you @mention, the @ symbol shows in the message in their Channel and on their Team icon. Check your Team icon now to see if someone has @mentioned you.
Stay on top of things with Activity and notifications
You can easily see when someone @mentions you, likes something you posted, or replies to a thread you started. A number appears or increments on the Activity and Chat icons, and an @ appears on the Teams icon.
1.	Select the Activity icon.
2.	To view conversations that apply to you, select Notifications. Select Recent to view up-to-date Team conversations.
Error! Filename not specified.
Search for messages, people, or files
You can search across teams, channels, and files.
1.	Type a phrase in the Search box and selectError! Filename not specified..
2.	Select Messages, People, or Files.
3.	Select the item in the search results. Alternatively, you can click the Filter icon to sort or filter your search results.
Error! Filename not specified.
Adding Integrations
Microsoft Teams is integrated with many apps that can be utilized for collaboration. To view apps/integrations:
1.	Try adding a new tab.
Error! Filename not specified.
2.	This page shows tabs available to add, to add a new app/integration select Manage apps in the bottom right corner of the page.
Error! Filename not specified.
3.	This view shows existing apps/integrations, selecting More apps in the top right corner of the Apps window will pull up currently available apps/integrations. If you’d like to add an integration not yet included in Teams, reach out to your delegated administrator.
Error! Filename not specified.
Error! Filename not specified.
Meetings
You can start a meeting or schedule a future meeting within your team at any time. To start a meeting with your team:
1.	Open your team.
2.	Select the channel you wish to host your meeting in.
3.	Click on the video camera symbol at the bottom of the page to set up a meeting.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Add a subject so members know what the meeting is about.
Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Select Meet now.
o	Alternatively, you can select Schedule a meeting to set the meeting for a later date or time. You can also go to your Calendar tab in the left pane and highlight a timeslot you wish to meet during. Both options prompt the New Meeting pop-up, which lets you organize the meeting details.

Error! Filename not specified.
Once the meeting has started, members and invited users can join the meeting directly in the channel or through their calendar and alerts. The meeting starts once the meeting organizer has joined. Each Teams-hosted meeting has a conference ID and a number that members can use to dial in. There is also a chatroom within the meeting for those who do not have audio to collaborate with others.
During a meeting, you have options to take meeting notes (these are saved to the team’s OneNote), view the meeting details, and record the meeting. Recorded meetings are saved to Microsoft Stream. Your Team’s group in Microsoft Stream is private to your Team members. Additional information on Microsoft Stream can be found in our Streams Newsroom post.
Additional Microsoft Hosted Teams Documentation 
Rutgers IT Microsoft Teams FAQ
Microsoft Teams information for Delegated Admins
" KB0012477 Microsoft Teams Common use cases for Microsoft Teams "
Microsoft Teams combines some of the best components of Office 365 into a single tool. One of its biggest goals is collaboration. You are most likely going to benefit from using Teams within a department, group, team, or project. A new Team -- or new channels within a Team -- can be made for new goals in mind. We’ve listed below some of the most common use cases for Microsoft Teams.
Organizational Management
Managing, administering, and collaborating within a department or unit can be made easy through Teams. You can track discussions in message threads across various channels, schedule meetings or training sessions in the team’s calendar, organize files in the team’s OneDrive component, and more, all in one place. Restrictions can be implemented and configured by a team’s owner, which can be beneficial for submitting documents, viewing private files, or chatting in private spaces.
Chatting and Video Conferencing
Teams allows you to host remote virtual meetings within your team or between users individually. You can screen share, join conference calls, or hold a video conference for team members to join. They can be scheduled in advance or made on the spot. A great feature of Teams meetings is that they can be recorded and saved to Microsoft Stream, providing an option for others to view later or reference. This can be used for orientations, training sessions, interviews, and more.
Student Project Sites
Individual or group work efforts are made easier with Teams. Students can make their own Teams with either their ScarletMail or Connect accounts. External users can also be added to these self-created Teams. Creating a Team provides students with the ability to virtually meet and work with group members, store all project-related files and documents in one space, collaborate on updating documents, mark due dates on calendars, and more.
Research Sites
Teams can act as a repository for research-related activities. Each Team has its own files component with unlimited HIPAA-compliant storage and an associated email address. Sharing and reviewing research files is made convenient -- you can email the group a document that can be viewed (and saved) in the Team space. You can reference files in a discussion thread within Teams while editing the files in real-time. External collaborators can also be included or restricted to certain files, channels, and discussions.
Cooperative Project Sites
If a department has multiple projects that need managing, Microsoft Teams is a great tool for the job. Whether your project involves software development, lab work, hiring, promotion tracking, or committee organization, having multiple Office 365 products in one space can help make tasks run smoothly. With SharePoint, OneDrive, OneNote, Power Automate, and other integrations at your disposal, you can work on and manage your projects in a simple and intuitive application that has everything in one place.
" KB0012485 Microsoft Teams Creating a team in Microsoft Teams "
Creating a Team
Rutgers Connect users can self-create their own Teams through the Teams application. Upon logging in and viewing all Teams, you will see a Join or create team option in the top right corner of your application.
Here, you will be provided with four different creation options: Class, Professional Learning Community (PLC), Staff, and Other. To better understand which Teams option is best for you, please refer to Microsoft's documentation on choosing a team type. Class teams function similarly to class sites, where students and teachers can collaborate on projects, assignments, and classwork. Staff teams work best for staff members working on a project together. PLC teams offer a space for faculty members and educators to collaborate, while “Other” is more for personal, casual teams or groups.
Previously, Microsoft Teams was only available to Rutgers Connect users through the creation of a unified group; this option remains available for users who would like a team based on an existing or new Office 365 group. Any changes made to the group will be synced with Teams automatically, and can simplify the process of inviting/managing members. Group files are also displayed inside of Microsoft Teams.
There are two primary roles in Microsoft Teams: team owner and team member. Owners create the group, or are assigned ownership to a group by a delegated administrator (depending on the team that’s been created). Owners can designate any member of their team as a co-owner; multiple owners enable you to share responsibilities and manage settings. Team members are invited by the owners or added to the team group by delegated administrators.
There are notable differences between self-created teams and departmental teams that users should be aware of before making their decision:
Departmental Teams
•	Must be requested and created by contacting your Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator
•	Only faculty/staff can request creation
•	You can open and view a unified group mailbox associated with the Team
•	Has an associated email address for the group that is created with the Team
•	No restrictions for the team name, but restricted to the department’s or user’s domain (i.e. @oit, @echo, etc.)
•	Owners cannot update the name; only delegated administrators are able to
Self-created Teams
•	Any user with a Connect account can create a team via the Teams application
•	Stand-alone; no unified group mailbox to view in Rutgers Connect
•	Can only send mail to specific channels within the team itself
•	Teams are restricted to the @teams domain and have a stricter naming policy
•	Owners can update or change the name of their Team in the Team's settings
•	Faculty, staff, and students can self-create
•	Teams inactive for 400 days will expire automatically. Starting 30 days prior to expiration, the Team owner(s) will receive email notifications from Microsoft stating that their Team will expire unless action is taken. 
Select a Team and Channel
A team is a collection of people, conversations, files, and tools — all in one place. A channel is a discussion topic in a team. The best way to get familiar with teams and channels is to select a team and channel and start exploring.
1.	Select the Teams icon. If you’re not on a Team and want to create one, refer to “Creating a Team” above.
2.	Select a channel and explore the Conversations, Files, and Notes tabs.
Channels can be a department, project, or topic. For more info, see Teams and channels.
Getting to Know the Microsoft Teams Layout
When you open Microsoft Teams, a search bar is centered at the top of the screen. This helps you quickly locate the Team, file, message, or person you are looking for. Microsoft Teams usually opens to the last view that was used. If it’s a fresh session or your first time, you may not see any Teams displayed. Alternatively, you may also open to a list of teams you are a member of or own, that you can select.
A vertical toolbar resides on the left side of the screen. Its upper left corner contains buttons for the main views: Activity, Chat, Teams, Calendar, Calls, and Files. You can also add more items to your left sidebar for easy access. Note that some buttons may not be available, depending on your account type. In the lower left corner of the toolbar are the buttons for Apps that are integrated with Teams and Help for feedback and training. Notification settings are synced with the server; changes made in the browser will be reflected in the desktop client.
The rest of the screen is divided into two panes. Pane content depends on the current view. The left or list pane is used to navigate within the view. It always contains the Search field. The rest of its contents depend on the selected view. For example, if you select Chat on the toolbar, the left pane contains a list of your favorite, recent, and suggested contacts.
The right or main pane takes up most of the screen. It shows the content of the selection you have made in the left pane. For example, if you selected Chat on the toolbar and then selected a recent contact in the left pane, the right pane contains your conversation history with that person. The right pane also has tabs to keep the content organized. For example, the Files tab contains a list of the files shared between you and the selected contact, the Teams tab shows a list of all of your Teams, and so on.
A breakdown of the default tabs:
•	Activity - list of notifications and call history
•	Chat - direct messages between other users or groups
•	Teams - list of teams you have access to, and where you can view your team’s content
•	Calendar - displays your Rutgers Connect calendar
•	Calls - where you can easily host meetings or call another user/group
•	Files - view recent files you’ve accessed, recent notebooks you’ve worked in, files shared with you, downloads you’ve done, etc., across all teams & groups you have access to (as well as your own personal OneDrive).
Individual Team Layout
Once you open and access your team via the Teams tab, the right pane reveals numerous new options, tabs, and features for you to use. The default view is the “General” conversation channel, which is a dedicated section within a team to keep conversations organized. Various viewing/access permissions can be granted per channel, along with file access. Each team has “General” as the default channel. The name can be changed, more channels can be added, deleted, moved, and archived in the team settings. Channels are ordered alphabetically.
At the top of the team display are different tabs -- what’s displayed will be different depending on the type of team you created. The default is Posts where discussion channels live. Files lets you open the files within the team’s SharePoint site that houses OneDrive files. You can move around and add other tabs, including Forms, OneNote, Planner, Excel, and various other integrations that have been enabled in Teams.
The ellipses in the top right corner of your team brings up channel notification settings, channel management settings, an email address for each channel that you can send mail to directly, and a link to a channel that you can provide to members. Connectors cannot be modified by team owners or members, they are managed at the admin level. The ellipses on the left side of the team next to your team’s name lets you open the team’s settings (as an owner), add channels, leave the team, edit the team, or get a link to take members directly to the team.
The ability to start a conversation, mention someone in a conversation, comment on a thread or file, post a file, start a meeting, and more can be found at the bottom of your team’s layout.
If you delete a team, all associated files, conversations, and notes related to the team will also be deleted. To inquire about a team that needs to be restored, please contact your delegated administrator.
Learn more about Microsoft Teams
The Teams application features a “Help” section dedicated to educating users on how to utilize Teams to its full potential. The “What’s New” section displays recent news or changes to Teams.
Microsoft has also implemented a chat feature called “T-Bot” where you can utilize it to ask questions. To access T-Bot, select Chat, then search for T-Bot as a contact. Type your question in the message box and press Enter.
You can also view more organizational tips from Microsoft. 
" KB0012518 Microsoft Teams Getting help with Microsoft Teams "
Visit the Microsoft website to learn about new features in Microsoft Teams on desktop, web, iOS, and Android systems.
Table of Contents
•	How to find help articles in Teams 
o	Desktop
o	Mobile
•	Find the version of Teams you are using 
o	Desktop
o	Mobile
•	Give feedback in Teams 
o	Desktop
o	Mobile
•	Change settings in Teams 
o	Desktop
o	Mobile
•	Update Microsoft Teams 
o	Desktop
o	Mobile
•	Sync Microsoft Teams 
o	Desktop
o	Mobile
•	Sign out of Teams 
o	Desktop
o	Mobile
•	Uninstall Microsoft Teams 
o	Windows
o	Mac
o	Mobile
•	Recover a deleted team or channel in Teams 
o	Recover a deleted team
o	Recover a deleted channel
•	Information protection in Teams
•	Change a team's data security classification in Teams
•	Safari browser support 
o	Teams preview won't open in Safari
How to find help articles in Teams
Desktop
To access Help, click Settings and More Error! Filename not specified.at the top of the app next to your profile picture, then select Get Help or What's new. Feel free to use the tabs at the top to watch training videos and browse the FAQ as well.
Mobile
Tap Your Profile icon > Settings > Help & Feedback > Help.
To find Help online, go to the Microsoft Teams help center.
Find the version of Teams you are using
Desktop
Click Settings and More Error! Filename not specified.> Settings > About Teams. This tells you what version you are running, if it is the latest update, and when it was last updated.
Mobile
Tap Your Profile icon > Settings > About.
Give feedback in Teams
Desktop
Click Settings and More Error! Filename not specified.at the top of the app, then select Provide feedback.
Mobile
Tap Your Profile icon > Settings > About > Help & Feedback.
Change settings in Teams
Desktop
•	Click your profile picture at the top of the app. You can change your picture, status, themes, app settings, notifications, or language, access keyboard shorts, and more. There is even a link to download the mobile app.
•	Update language, time zone, and date: 
o	Click Settings and More Error! Filename not specified.at the top of the app, then select Settings > General and go to the Language section.
o	Selecting your preferred language and region also updates your date and time zone.
•	Turn on high contrast mode: 
o	Settings and More Error! Filename not specified.at the top of the app, then select Settings > Appearance 
o	In the Theme section, click High contrast. You can also select the Dark or Default theme.
•	Set Teams to start automatically:
•	Teams is set to automatically open and run in the background as soon as you start your device. If you close the app, it continues to run in the background. You can change these settings anytime by clicking your profile picture at the top of the app, then select Settings and More Error! Filename not specified. > General. From the System section, you can disable auto-start. You can also adjust your settings so that the app will not run in the background or continue running after you close your window.
Mobile
Tap Your Profile icon > Settings to manage notifications and options, access help, get version information, and sign out.
Update Microsoft Teams
Desktop
The desktop app automatically updates. If you'd like, you can still check for available updates by clicking Settings and More Error! Filename not specified.at the top of the app and then selecting > Settings > About Teams.
Mobile
To update the Teams mobile app, update or reinstall it from the iOS App Store or Google Play Store.
Sync Microsoft Teams
Desktop
If you are experiencing sync issues in Teams, a banner appears at the top of the app containing a "Refresh" link. Click the link to restart your app. You should be fully synced once everything is up and running again.
The other option is to manually restart the app by right-clicking the Teams icon in your dock (Mac) or taskbar (Windows) and selecting Quit. After you quit, simply click the app icon to reopen it.
Mobile
To update the Teams mobile app, download and install it again from the iOS App Store or Google Play Store.
Sign out of Teams
Desktop
Windows: Click your profile picture at the top of the app and select Sign out.
Mac: Go to the app menu bar at the top of your screen and click Microsoft Teams > Quit Microsoft Teams.
Mobile
Tap More > Settings > Sign out.
Uninstall Microsoft Teams
Windows
You need to uninstall two items for each user on a machine to fully uninstall Teams. Please follow all the steps:
1.	Quit Teams by right-clicking the Teams icon in the taskbar and choosing Close Window.
2.	In Windows, click on the Start button > Settings > Apps.
3.	Under Apps & features, search "teams".
4.	Highlight Microsoft Teams, then select Uninstall.
5.	A box will appear; then, select Uninstall again to confirm. A new box will appear, asking Do you want to allow this app to make changes to your device? Select Yes.
6.	Now select Team Machine-Wide Installer, click Uninstall. Then follow the same process described in Step 5.
Notes:
•	Teams will also be removed if you uninstall Office.
•	If you reinstall or perform an online repair of Office, Teams will be included.
•	Administrators can prevent the installation of Teams when they install Office. See documentation for this process here.
Mac
Quit Teams by right-clicking the Teams app in the dock, then holding down Option and clicking Force Quit. Open the Application Folder, select Microsoft Teams, and move it to the Trash.
Mobile
You can uninstall Teams the same way you uninstall other apps on your mobile device.
Recover a deleted team or channel in Teams
Recover a deleted team
You will need your IT admin's help to recover a deleted team. You can show them this blog post for reference.
Recover a deleted channel
Go to the team name and click More options > Manage team. On the Channels tab, find the channel in the Deleted section and click Restore.
Information protection in Teams
To meet your legal, regulatory, and content security needs, Teams offers the following information protection capabilities through the Office 365 Security & Compliance Center:
Capability	Description
Archive	Any content stored in any Teams-related workload needs to be preserved immutably according to the enterprise corporate policy.
Compliance content search	Any content stored in any workload can be searched through rich filtering capabilities. All content can be exported to a specific container for compliance and litigation support.
eDiscovery	Rich eDiscovery in-place capabilities, including case management, preservation, search, analysis, and export, are available to help our customers simplify the eDiscovery process and quickly identify relevant data while decreasing cost and risk.
Legal hold	When any team or individual is placed on in-place hold or litigation hold, the hold is applied to both the primary and archived messages (excluding edits and deletes).
Audit log search	All team activities and business events must be captured and available for customer search and export
Exchange online protection	Email messages that are sent to a channel are filtered for spam, malware, malicious links, spoofing, and phishing via Exchange Online Protection and Advanced Threat Protection for Office 365.
Conditional access	We ensure that access to Teams is restricted to devices that are compliant with your IT admin or corporate organization's set policies and security rules. This includes MDM and MAM support with Intune for iOS and Android.
For more information about these compliance features, see Overview of security and compliance in Office 365.
For more details about content searches and Teams, see the Teams section of Run a Content Search in the Office 365 Security & Compliance Center.
Change a team's data security classification in Teams
If you are a team owner, you can edit your team's data security classification by navigating to the team name and clicking "More options"> "Edit team". At the bottom of the dialog box, click Change setting to change your team's classification.
Safari browser support
Teams preview won't open in Safari
•	Safari 11.0 uses Intelligent Tracking Prevention to block third-party tracking cookies. Because of the way Intelligent Tracking Prevention categorizes cookies, login.microsoftonline.com gets lumped into this category (even though it is not a tracking domain), and Microsoft Teams is prevented from opening.
•	If you want to use Teams in Safari while the Safari browser support is in preview, go to Preferences > Privacy and uncheck the "Prevent cross-site tracking" setting. Then, close your browser and navigate back to teams.microsoft.com in Safari.
Notes:
•	Changing this setting may impact your experience on other websites.
•	Once Safari is fully supported for Teams, you will no longer need this workaround.
When you are done using Teams in Safari, go to Preferences > Privacy and recheck the Prevent cross-site tracking setting.
" KB0012608 Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams & Planner: Creating sub-plans "
When a new team is created within Microsoft Teams, a plan in Microsoft Planner is also created for that team. Fortunately, if a team wants to have multiple sub-plans, they can create them right in Teams without having to configure a new team. 
Although Planner is well integrated with Teams, there are a few limitations:
•	Cannot delete a plan from within Teams
•	Cannot favorite a plan in Teams
•	Cannot add people directly to plan from Teams, but can add them to the channel to view plan in Teams only
Creating a new plan
1.	In your team channel select Add a tab.
2.	In the Add a tab dialog box, select Planner.
3.	By selecting Create a new plan in the Planner dialog box and clicking Save, a new sub-plan will be created for the team. 
o	You can choose whether to post to the channel about the new tab with the checkbox on the bottom left of the dialog box.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Within the planner tab you can utilize many of the features present in Microsoft Planner right from Teams, such as being able to add, organize, and assign tasks. When members are assigned a task, they will receive an email notification regarding their assignment from Planner.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	You can also gain valuable insights about your plan by selecting the Charts and Schedule tabs.

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	By selecting the globe icon on the top right corner in Teams, you can open the current plan in Microsoft Planner for further utilization.
7.	You can also view, edit, and delete your plan within the “Planner Hub” in Microsoft Planner.

     Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0019210 Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams - Rooms "
What are Microsoft Teams Rooms?
Microsoft Teams Rooms are a way to connect conference room equipment to a Rutgers Connect calendar. There are two variations of this product:
•	Microsoft Teams Panels 
o	These are devices (usually tablet-sized) that display the meetings scheduled for a room. Some even come with status lights to indicate from a distance if the room is currently occupied when the device is mounted outside the conference room door in the hallway. If this is all that is needed, then a Microsoft Teams Shared Space license can be used to activate the room calendar with a Teams Panel device.
•	Microsoft Teams Room 
o	Consists of one or multiple devices that allow integrating the room calendar with the conference display. Typically, this setup includes a Front of Room Display, which often features a microphone, speakers, and a camera, paired with a touchscreen console and an optional Teams Panel. Some hardware configurations will not have a separate console but will have a touchscreen on the Front of Room Display. All actions typically done on the touchscreen console will instead be done on the touchscreen Front of Room Display. Based on the room calendar, upcoming meetings are displayed on both the display and console, with a one-touch meeting join button available on the console. Either a Teams, WebEx, or Zoom icon will accompany the join button to indicate which application interface will be used in the meeting. If the room was not invited to the meeting, attendees can enter the meeting information manually and join it ad hoc. A Microsoft Teams Room Pro license is needed per room calendar and supports any combination of Front of Room Display, Touchscreen Console, and Teams Panel; up to five devices. 
o	Attendees or presenters can use Microsoft Teams Rooms for a Microsoft Teams Town Hall or a Microsoft Teams Webinar. Microsoft has additional information on joining the events, using the Green Room, and switching between presenter and attendee views.
For either solution, QR codes can be enabled to provide an easy way to access the room calendar, eliminating the need to look up the room in the address book. They can also be used to join an ongoing meeting from their mobile device, reserve and start an ad hoc meeting, or cast content from their mobile device to the Front of Room Display. Depending on the hardware chosen, additional features may be available or not.
Using Microsoft Teams Rooms on Cisco hardware
For Microsoft Teams Rooms on Cisco hardware, One-Touch Joining of events is supported for WebEx, Zoom, and Teams meetings. Invite the room calendar to the meeting or forward the meeting details to the room calendar so that the event appears on their calendar. It may take 5 to 10 minutes for an invitation to be processed and appear on the calendar. If the meeting does not appear on a room calendar, double-check that it is not being rejected due to one of the following situations. Refer to the Cisco One Button to Push (OBTP) documentation for additional information. 
Microsoft Teams Rooms on Cisco hardware shares similarities with Microsoft Teams Rooms on Android devices. Microsoft has additional information on what to expect when using Microsoft Teams Rooms on Android devices.
Important notes when creating Microsoft Teams Rooms
•	Make sure the meeting does not overlap with someone else's booking. If the meeting is recurring, ensure that none of the future events overlap, or the entire series will be rejected.
•	Room reservations cannot be made more than 1,080 days (approximately 3 years) in advance. If the meeting recurrence has a span greater than 1080 days, the entire series will be rejected. To fix this, shorten the period between the first and last meetings to be less than 1,080 days. If, two years into the future, the meeting needs to be extended for another two years, a new series can be created to start after the existing one ends, or the Start/End By dates of the existing meetings' recurrence can be adjusted.
How to manually join Microsoft Teams Rooms
If the meeting information does not get automatically pulled from the calendar event, try the following to join manually:
•	Teams: Click the "Join with an ID" button, select the appropriate provider, and then click "Next." Enter the meeting ID and Passcode, and then join the meeting.
•	WebEx: A fly-out menu is located on the center-right edge of the touch console. Touch it to make it slide out onto the screen. Click on either the Call or Webex button, and type in the WebEx meeting number with the "@rutgers.webex.com" suffix.
•	Zoom: A fly-out menu is located on the center-right edge of the touch console. Touch it to make it slide out onto the screen. Click on the Zoom button to join by access code and password. If the conference room has multiple screens, this method may need to be used instead of simply hitting the Join button to utilize all screens.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0018962 Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams - Town Halls "
What are Microsoft Teams Town Halls?
The Town Hall meeting style in Microsoft Teams is intended for large, broadcast-style events that focus on sharing information across broad audiences. Unlike Teams Webinars, which are designed around registration and structured participation, Town Halls emphasize presentation and delivery by providing a platform for organizational updates, leadership communications, or campus-wide announcements. 
Town Halls provide a streamlined, one-to-many experience, where presenters control what attendees see and hear, helping to maintain focus and consistency throughout the event. Attendees join in a view-only format, with options for moderated Q&A and post-event reporting available to organizers. 
Town Halls can be scheduled directly from the Teams calendar and configured for internal or public audiences. With Teams Premium, organizers can take advantage of additional features, including higher attendee limits, enhanced analytics, live translated captions, and advanced production controls. Teams Premium licenses are not required to host Town Halls, but they can be purchased through the Rutgers Software Portal for additional controls.
Key settings to review before creating a Town Hall in Microsoft Teams
•	Organizers should begin planning Town Halls several weeks in advance to allow time for scheduling, setup, and promotion. High-attendance events may require additional testing, especially if large numbers of external participants are expected. Early preparation ensures a smoother experience for both presenters and attendees. 
•	Decide whether the Town Hall should be open to the public or limited to internal Rutgers participants. Public Town Halls are accessible to anyone with the event link, while internal Town Halls restrict access to members of the Rutgers organization. External attendees can only join if the event is set to public. 
•	Next, assign roles and confirm responsibilities. Determine who will serve as presenters, co-organizers, and moderators. Each role contributes differently. Presenters share content, co-organizers manage logistics and transitions, and moderators handle Q&A and attendee engagement. 
•	Plan the event content and layout. Identify which speakers will be spotlighted, what materials will be shared, and how transitions between segments will occur. Consider incorporating consistent branding or imagery to achieve a professional look. 
•	Before the event, conduct one or more technical rehearsals using the Town Hall green room to verify audio, video, screen sharing, and transitions. Testing network performance and device setup ahead of time helps minimize disruptions during the live broadcast. 
•	For large-scale events, ensure your organization's content delivery network (eCDN) settings are optimized. Microsoft eCDN is enabled by default for Teams Premium users, but other options can be configured if needed. 
•	Once all preparations are complete, publish the event and distribute the invitation through your department's channels. Reminders can be sent closer to the event date to encourage attendance. 
For additional guidance on preparing large-scale Teams events, review Microsoft's tips for setting up large meetings and events in Teams. 
For more information about setting up Town Hall, review Microsoft's guide on getting started with Town Hall in Microsoft Teams. 
Creating a Town Hall in Microsoft Teams 
1.	Open Microsoft Teams.
2.	Go to Calendar > New meeting > Town Hall.
3.	When the Town Hall form opens, enter the following: 
o	Title of the Town Hall.
o	Date, start time, and end time.
o	Description for the event.
4.	Add presenters and co-organizers as needed.
5.	Review the settings, then select Save to publish the Town Hall.
Error! Filename not specified. 
In the event form, organizers can configure the Town Hall's access. By default, events are set to internal, meaning only accounts within the Rutgers organization can attend. If the event is to be open to external guests, change the access type to 'public' before saving, ensuring that anyone with the event link can join the broadcast. 
Organizers can add agenda items or notes to the Meeting notes section. These notes are visible only to presenters and co-organizers and can be used to outline talking points, assign presentation segments, or provide internal instructions. 
After saving, Teams will generate the event in your Teams calendar and automatically send invitations to presenters and co-organizers. Organizers can then configure advanced settings such as enabling Q&A, controlling attendee visibility, or customizing the event layout.  
After reviewing all configurations, publish the event and share the Town Hall link with attendees through appropriate communication channels such as email, departmental newsletters, or campus announcements. The event will remain visible and editable from the Teams calendar, allowing organizers to manage details, update participants, or duplicate the setup for future sessions. 
After the conclusion of the Town Hall, all recordings, Q&A history, and engagement reports will be accessible from the calendar entry. 
For full details, refer to Microsoft's guide on creating a Town Hall in Microsoft Teams.
Important notes and tips for using Microsoft Teams Town Halls
•	Town Hall attendees join with audio and video off by default. Only presenters and organizers can share their audio and video. Engagement is via Q&A or other controlled interactions. 
•	Audio/video latency is expected (delays in one-to-many broadcasting).
•	If a past Town Hall is duplicated, many settings will carry over; however, some production options may reset or require reconfiguration.
•	Be aware of retention and expiration settings for recordings. By default, published Town Hall recordings expire after 30 days; in some cases, organizers can extend this period to 60 days. 
•	Use real-time analytics and telemetry (especially with Premium) to monitor audience viewership, performance, and network quality. 
Frequently asked questions about Microsoft Teams Town Halls
•	Who can schedule a Town Hall? 
o	People who have permission and a license (typically enterprise Teams users). Advanced features (e.g., increased attendee limits, analytics, eCDN) require Teams Premium. 
•	Who can attend a Town Hall? 
o	For public Town Halls, both internal and external users are welcome to attend.
o	For internal Town Halls, only users within the organization or domain can join. External or anonymous users cannot. 
•	Do attendees need a Teams account? 
o	External attendees can join via a web browser without a Teams account (if the event is public). Internal attendees typically sign in with their Rutgers organization credentials.
•	What interaction do attendees have? 
o	Attendees' mics and cameras are turned off by default. They can interact via Q&A, chat (if enabled), and possibly reactions depending on configuration.
•	Can external presenters be added? 
o	Yes. Organizers can invite presenters outside the organization; they'll receive a unique link with presenter rights. 
•	What happens after the Town Hall? 
o	Organizers can download and publish the event recording. Published recordings send email notifications to attendees. Attendance and engagement reports become available. Real-time analytics dashboards may be accessible with Premium licensing. 
•	Where can I find the Town Hall recording after it ends? 
o	Once the event ends and the recording is published, attendees will receive an email with a link to view the recording. Organizers and presenters can also access the recording from the meeting details in Teams. The recording can be found in the Teams calendar, just like a regular meeting. The recording and reports are available in the Teams calendar event details page. Recordings are stored in OneDrive or SharePoint, depending on where the Town Hall was scheduled. Organizers and co-organizers own the recording and can share or download it as needed.
•	How many attendees can join a Town Hall? 
o	Up to 10,000 under standard licensing. With Teams Premium, the capacity can reach 50,000 attendees, as per Microsoft documentation.
•	How is a Town Hall different from a Webinar or a regular meeting? 
o	Meetings are collaborative, where everyone can unmute, share, and chat freely.
o	Webinars are structured events that require registration and typically limit the number of attendees.
o	Town Halls are large-scale, broadcast-style events designed for one-to-many communication, featuring moderated Q&A and robust production controls. 
•	How long can a Town Hall last? 
o	Town Halls can run for up to 30 hours, allowing for extended programming or back-to-back sessions if needed.
•	Who can present or moderate during a Town Hall? 
o	Each Town Hall has Organizers who schedule and manage the event, configure settings, and access reports. Presenters share content, speak on camera, and manage Q&A. Producers/Co-organizers assist with production, manage what attendees see, and handle transitions. Only assigned presenters and co-organizers are permitted to speak or share content during the event.
" KB0018961 Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams - Webinars "
What are Microsoft Teams Webinars?
The webinar meeting style is event-oriented, making it suitable for hosting organized, presenter-led events such as trainings, briefings, or information sessions. Webinars are best suited for scenarios where participants primarily attend to view and listen, rather than actively collaborate, as in traditional meetings. It's a style that focuses on one-way communication from presenters to the audience, offering a more controlled and formal setting.  
Webinars can be scheduled in advance, shared publicly or within the organization, and managed through the Teams calendar like any other meeting type. With Teams Premium, additional capabilities become available, such as manual registration approval, waitlists, and enhanced branding and security features. Teams Premium licenses are not required for the webinar service, but can be purchased for additional webinar features from the Rutgers Software Portal.  
Teams Premium offers numerous features that impact all meeting types, including Town Halls and Webinars.  
Key settings to review before creating a Microsoft Teams Webinar
•	Organizers should plan and prepare the Teams Webinar for several weeks in advance to allow enough time for registration, promotion, and preparation. Verify whether the event should be open to the public or limited to internal Rutgers participants. Public webinars allow anyone with the registration link to sign up, while private webinars restrict access to accounts within the Rutgers organization. Anyone, whether inside or outside the organization, can register via public webinar links. Note, webinars may default to "Public" if not specified otherwise. This setting can be changed before publishing the event.
•	Next, design a registration form that best collects the required information from attendees. Organizers can use this registration form to gather insights, triage registrants, or track attendance. Once the form is finalized, invite presenters and co-organizers. Each role has distinct responsibilities: presenters share content and lead discussions, while co-organizers assist with event management, moderation, and logistics. Organizers should invite both internal and external speakers and determine who will help with managing registration, moderation, Q&A, and other tasks.   
•	Organizers are also encouraged to prepare an agenda, draft talking points, and perform technical checks in advance. Testing the cameras, microphones, and network connectivity before the event helps avoid disruptions. Consider joining the webinar from multiple devices to confirm that both presenters' and attendees' views appear as expected.
•	After finalizing details, publish the webinar and share the registration link through the appropriate channels, such as email, newsletters, or department announcements. Once the event is published, presenters and registered attendees will automatically receive an invitation containing the event details. 
For more guidance on preparing large-scale Teams events, see Microsoft's article on tips for setting up large meetings and events in Teams. 
More information about the Webinar setup can be found in Microsoft's article on how to get started with Microsoft Teams Webinars. 
How to create a Webinar in Microsoft Teams 
1.	Open Microsoft Teams.
2.	Go to Calendar > New meeting > Webinar.
3.	When the webinar form opens, enter the following: 
o	Title of the webinar.
o	Date, start time, and end time.
o	Description for attendees.
4.	Add presenters and co-organizers as needed.
5.	Review the settings, then select Save to publish the webinar. 
Error! Filename not specified. 
In this new webinar format, organizers can add an agenda or notes to the Meeting Notes section. These notes are visible only to presenters and co-organizers and can be used to outline topics, assign responsibilities, or prepare discussion materials. Note that by default, new webinars are created as public, meaning anyone with the registration link can sign up. If the event should be limited to members of the Rutgers organization, change the access setting to Your organization before saving. This format restricts registration and attendance to internal users only. 
After saving, Teams will create a registration page, send invitations to presenters, and allow the organizer to preview or edit the registration form. After reviewing the form, publish the event to make it accessible to attendees. The registration link can be shared directly or included in campus communications and event listings. After publishing, the event should appear in your Teams calendar and be manageable like any other meeting. Organizers may edit details, update registration settings, or duplicate the event to reuse its configuration for future sessions. Recordings, attendance reports, and chat history will also be available from the duplicate calendar entry once the webinar has concluded. 
For complete guidance, refer to Microsoft's article on scheduling a webinar in Microsoft Teams. 
Important notes and tips for using Microsoft Teams Webinars
•	When duplicating a Teams Webinar, most settings are carried over (theme, forms, emails), although the meeting options may revert to default if the original event was unused for more than 60 days. 
•	For external presenters, Teams will generate a unique join link; external presenters don't always need to wait in the lobby. 
•	Be sure to check registration form settings before publishing.
•	If a user purchased a Teams Premium license, they receive additional webinar capabilities, such as:  
o	Manual registration approval: Organizers can approve or reject registrations. 
o	Waitlists: Automatically manage oversubscription by queuing additional registrants. 
o	Enhanced branding & customization: More control over the look and feel, branded emails, and logos. 
o	Security & advanced analytics: Additional reporting, controls, and telemetry. 
Frequently Asked Questions about Microsoft Teams Webinars 
•	Who can schedule a Teams Webinar? 
o	By default, any user who can schedule Teams Meetings can also schedule Teams Webinars, including all faculty, staff, and users with full Rutgers Connect accounts. 
•	Who can attend a Teams Webinar?  
o	In a public Teams Webinar, anyone (internal or external) can register.
o	In an internal/private Teams Webinar, only users within your organizational boundary can register and attend. All Rutgers University members should be considered internal. 
•	What happens during the Teams Webinar? 
o	External attendees join a lobby and must be admitted. Presenters control the experience, as they can mute attendees, turn off video, promote attendees, use polls, and more. Attendee audio/video is off by default (unless granted permissions). 
•	What is available after the Teams Webinar?  
o	Organizers can download detailed reports (attendance, engagement, registration). It is also possible to share recordings (if available) and follow up with participants as needed.
•	Where can I find my Teams Webinar after it ends (including recordings)? 
o	After a Teams Webinar concludes, it can be found in the Teams calendar, just like a regular Teams Meeting. Go to Calendar in Microsoft Teams and open the completed webinar event. If the webinar was recorded, the recording link will appear in the meeting chat and on the meeting details page. Recordings are stored in the organizer's personal OneDrive, or in a resource's SharePoint site if the meeting was held in a Teams channel. To access stored recordings, navigate to My Content > Meetings.
o	Note: The organizer and presenters typically own the recording. They can share the link with attendees or download it if needed. Recordings are subject to Rutgers' data retention and sharing policies.
•	Can I edit or delete a Teams Webinar after it has been published? 
o	Yes. The organizer can return to the event in the Teams calendar and open the webinar page. From there, they can also edit the title, description, presenters, registration form, or event access (public vs. internal). If the event has already been published, attendees will receive updated invitations when major details are changed.
•	Can I duplicate a past Teams Webinar to reuse its settings? 
o	Yes. To save time and duplicate a past event, open the webinar and select Duplicate event from the toolbar. Most details, including the theme, registration form, and presenter list, will carry over if the event has been recent enough. The date, description, and registration options can also be edited before publishing. 
•	Do attendees need a Microsoft Teams account to join a Teams Webinar?  
o	Not necessarily. For public webinars, anyone with a valid registration link can join via web browser; a Teams account isn't required. For internal (organization-only) webinars, attendees must sign in with their Rutgers credentials. 
•	How long are Teams Webinar recordings kept? 
o	It depends on where the recording is kept. If the webinar recording is stored in the organizers' personal OneDrive, it may be subject to audits. Recordings stored in SharePoint will honor the Teams' retention policies. By default, Teams recordings are automatically deleted after 120 days. Always download or back up recordings that can be reused.
•	Can Teams Webinar include breakout rooms or polls? 
o	Webinars support most standard Teams meeting features, including polls, reactions, and Q&A. Breakout rooms are supported in Webinars with fewer than 300 attendees. 
•	Can I add external presenters or co-organizers?  
o	Yes. External presenters can be added by email. They'll receive a unique join link with presenter permissions. Co-organizers, however, must be members of the Rutgers tenant.
•	What's the attendee limit for a Teams Webinar?  
o	By default, up to 1,000 interactive participants can join a Teams Webinar. If attendance exceeds that number, Teams automatically switches overflow attendees to a "view-only experience", supporting up to 10,000 attendees (or 20,000 with Teams Premium). 
More troubleshooting questions can be found in Microsoft's article on troubleshooting meeting issues in Microsoft Teams.
" KB0012609 Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams for Students "
Rutgers University provides free access to various Microsoft Office products for all current students, which includes Microsoft Teams. Students can download and access Microsoft Teams using their Rutgers email accounts: Non-RBHS students have access to the product by logging in using their ScarletMail accounts, while RBHS students can download and access Teams directly from their Rutgers Connect accounts.
Microsoft Teams is a great way for students to collaborate with classmates virtually by managing tasks, video conferencing, direct messaging, and storing files all in one place. It has also replaced Skype for Business as the suggested product for voice and video conferencing in the Office 365 suite, offering real-time updates to files and conversations. Rutgers University students have the ability to both join existing Teams and create new ones.
Students will have continued access to their Teams files, conversations, and data until their student role expires, after which the Office 365 Suite will no longer be available. Much of the data that’s stored via Teams can be accessed or shared from the student’s OneDrive (also available in the Office 365 Suite for students). Because students are using a ScarletMail address to access these spaces, there is no Office 365 mailbox attached to these products. Students can still receive mail from Teams at their ScarletMail accounts.
If a student has been invited to join a team, or is eager to create their own collaborative space, follow the instructions below to login.
Log in via the Teams web app
1.	Open a web browser.
2.	Navigate to teams.microsoft.com to access the Teams login page.
3.	Log in with your Rutgers ScarletMail* credentials. The login name should be entered as netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu*.
4.	Enter your NetID password.
5.	Select Sign in.
*If you are an RBHS student, or if you were provisioned with an Office 365 account, you must login using your connect.rutgers.edu credentials instead of your ScarletMail account.
Log in via the desktop app
1.	After downloading the application from getoffice.rutgers.edu using your student account*, you will be asked to sign in with your work or school account.
2.	The login name should be entered as netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu*.
3.	Enter your NetID password.
4.	Select Sign in.
*If you are an RBHS student, or if you were provisioned with an Office 365 account, you can download Teams directly from getoffice.rutgers.edu using your connect.rutgers.edu credentials instead of your ScarletMail account.
Log in via mobile applications
Students that would like to access teams from their mobile devices will need to first register the device via mobile device management. The process involves downloading the Rutgers Company Portal application in order to register the device via Microsoft Intune, as is the case for most Office365 applications on mobile devices. More details about the MDM process can be found here.
This measure is in place to secure devices in order to meet University compliance. MDM does not interfere with personal privacy or personal usage of a device. It instead provides an extra layer of security on the device and works to prevent the compromisation of University data. RBHS students can view their specific MDM policy information here. For any issues with MDM, please contact the OIT Help Desk for assistance.
Instructions for downloading the Company Portal Application can be found below
1.	Download the Microsoft Intune Company Portal application from your respective app store.
2.	Follow instructions for setup based on your device:
o	iOS instructions
o	Android instructions
3.	After setup, open the app and navigate to the Apps section.
4.	Under Apps, search for/select Microsoft Teams to download it.
5.	After download, you should be able to login with your ScarletMail (or Rutgers Connect) information.
Remember: RBHS students (or any student with a Connect account) can sign-in to Teams directly from their Connect accounts. 
Getting Started
Once signed in, you should be brought to the main Teams tab where you can view any Team you are a member of, or create a new Team using the Join or create a team option. There are also sections for direct calls/messages, recent activity, and a calendar where you can view or schedule meetings.
Teams are made up of two types of channels — standard (available and visible to everyone) and private (focused, private conversations with a specific audience). Each channel is built around a topic like "Team Events," a department name, or just for fun. Channels are where you hold meetings, have conversations, and work on files together. The tabs at the top of each channel link to your favorite files, apps, and services. Tabs vary for each channel. Microsoft offers various support videos to help users become familiar with the product.
You can also watch a demonstration on how the Rutgers University environment works from the Rutgers IT Lecture Series.
Key Features in Teams for Students
Manage Notifications
1.	Select the ellipses at the top of your application > Settings > Notifications.
2.	To be notified about all your shown channels, under the Teams and Channels section, select All activity.
3.	To be notified only when you are @mentioned or when you receive replies to your messages in channels, select Mentions & replies.
4.	You also have the ability to set custom notifications.
o	In order to see personal @ mentions, team mentions, and to better engage with team posts or direct messages, ensure that Banner and Feed is selected for the options of your choice. This will provide you with a prompt directly on your device even if the application is minimized or closed.
o	The Only show in feed option will still flash notifications on the desktop taskbar when notifications arrive, but no pop-up will show on your desktop.
Pinning Posts
•	To pin a post within a channel, hover over the post that you want to pin, select the More options at the top right, and then choose Pin.
•	To remove a pinned post, go to the original post, select More options, and then choose Unpin.
o	Note: If you can't pin a post, check with a team owner or channel moderator to see if you have permissions.
Application Behavior
•	This section allows you to update if the Teams application opens on startup, runs in the background, etc.
•	Click the ellipses at the top of your application > Settings > General > Application.
Add Multiple Teams Environments
•	If you have access to Teams from different accounts, you can add the account to your Teams application to easily alternate between them. The environment that you have access to with your student account is titled “Rutgers University” seen in the top right.
•	To add another account, such as a personal Microsoft address, click the ellipses at the top of your application > Settings > Account > Add account.
Background Blur for Meetings
•	You can set your own custom background during a video call to help disguise things in the background. You can also blur out the background. Both settings can be found before you join a call/meeting. You can head start this by going to Calendar > Meet now > Start meeting.
•	Prior to a call/meeting, turn on your camera and select Background filters.
Pop-out Chat
•	Right-click on a chat, select pop-out chat to isolate the window.
For more information, see our frequently asked questions or see our Teams support page. Any questions or concerns regarding Teams please contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0013180 Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams information for Delegated Admins "
There are two types of Teams: those created by a user and those built from a Unified Group. All Teams are technically built behind Unified Groups -- self-created Teams have all of the features that a Unified Group would have (different policies/restrictions), but they do not have a mailbox that is accessible to them. They would only be navigating the Teams interface. There’s a SharePoint “mailbox” instance that includes conversations in the Team, but mail has been turned off for the @teams domain. So there should not be mail delivered there. If users want to utilize the mail feature, you should create a Unified Group.
Users can choose to create a team themselves or request the creation of a Unified Group with Teams access from a delegated administrator. All self-created Teams are automatically provisioned in the @teams domain, to which the Help Desk (help@oit.rutgers.edu) has administrative access. Unified Groups created by DAs with the Teams value set to “on” in CAT will be created in the respective department’s domain. To search for a Team, you can type its associated email address in the search field in CAT. Each team will have an email address (though it cannot be used for mail in the case of self-created Teams). To view all groups/teams within your domain, navigate to the “Unified Groups” tab in CAT and select your domain in the “Manage Unified Groups” section of the page. This tab also lets you create new departmental groups/teams.
There are notable differences between self-created teams and departmental teams that users should be aware of before making their decision. For more information, refer to the Microsoft Teams Knowledge article. 
Departmental Teams
•	Must be requested and created by a delegated administrator
•	Users can open and view a unified group mailbox associated with the Team in Rutgers Connect
•	The associated email address can be utilized for the group
•	No restrictions for the team name, but restricted to the department’s or user’s domain (i.e. @oit, @echo, etc.)
•	Owners cannot update the name; only delegated administrators are able to
•	Only faculty/staff can request creation
•	Unified Groups do not expire, so the Team will not expire
Self-created Teams
•	Any user with a Connect account can create a team via the Teams application
•	Stand-alone; no unified group mailbox to view in Rutgers Connect
•	Can only send mail to specific channels within the team itself
•	Teams are restricted to the @teams domain and have a stricter naming policy
•	Owners can update or change the name of their Team in the Team’s settings
•	Faculty, staff, and students can self-create
•	Teams inactive for 400 days will expire automatically
For instance, if a user wants more access over how their Team is named or if they want a mailbox associated with their team, they should create a Unified Group with their DA. For self-created Teams, the team owner can update the name, ownership, membership, and more within the Teams application.
Connect Support is currently developing a de-provisioning process for self-created teams. Information will be provided to Domain Admins prior to rolling out the process. 

When this is rolled out, the process will be the following: 

The de-provisioning process for self-created Teams is as follows:
•	After 400 days of inactivity, the Team owner(s) will receive an email notification from Microsoft stating that their Team will expire in X amount of time unless action is taken.
o	The first notice is sent 30 days prior to soft deletion, the second notice is sent 15 days prior, and a final notice is sent 1 day prior to deletion.
o	The notice for Teams without an active owner, or no owner, will be sent to help@oit.rutgers.edu
o	An owner can manually renew their team in the Teams application by going to the “Team Settings” tab and clicking renew now under “Team Expiration”
•	If an owner performs one of the following actions, the group will be automatically renewed by one lifetime (another 400 days):
" KB0019075 Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams Phone Experience "
Table of Contents
•	About Teams Phone
•	Before You Begin 
•	Checking Call Quality 
•	Certified Devices & Hardware 
•	Making a Call 
•	Receiving a Call 
•	Checking Voicemail 
•	International Calling 
•	Tips for Best Call Quality
•	Options for Multiple Numbers in Teams 
•	Emergency Calling Behavior 
•	Enable Location Services on Your Device  
o	Windows
o	macOS
o	Open Teams and Access Emergency Location Settings 
o	Add or Update Your Emergency Address 
•	Phone Number Masking 
•	FAQs 
About Teams Phone
Rutgers now offers a softphone solution that utilizes the Microsoft Teams client (available to anyone with a Rutgers Connect account) while continuing to support the existing Cisco hardware and infrastructure used for desk phones. This hybrid approach offers you the flexibility of mobile communication without compromising access to the robust voice architecture already in place. 
The Teams softphone is an ideal solution for individuals who aren’t anchored to a single office location. Whether working remotely or off-site, you are not limited to using a desk phone in a physical workspace. You can make and receive calls from anywhere with just an internet connection and your Teams client. The softphone license includes a dedicated calling interface and dial pad. It works across multiple devices (desktop and mobile), and while the experience may vary slightly depending on your device, there is consistency across platforms to route desk phone calls directly to your Teams account. All Teams' softphone traffic is encrypted end-to-end with logging and analytics available upon request.  
If you choose to purchase the Teams softphone license, please note that it will effectively replace your physical desk phone. Both cannot operate simultaneously, and once the license is assigned, the desk phone will no longer function (except for emergency 911 calls). You will receive a reminder of this change at the time of purchase. Additionally, only individuals with a Rutgers Connect account are eligible for the softphone license. You who have the Teams softphone license will still be able to place and receive calls with colleagues who do not have the license. 
Once the Teams softphone license has been purchased and licensed, you will see a dial pad added to your Teams client on desktop, mobile, tablet, and even on dedicated Teams-certified hardware. This license enables faculty and staff to make and receive calls, just like a traditional desk phone, but fully integrated into the collaboration environment you use every day. The goal was to achieve consistency, flexibility, and modern functionality, reducing reliance on legacy desk phones, improving mobility, and providing a seamless voice experience across all Teams-enabled environments. 
To get started, you can purchase the softphone license from the Rutgers Voice Services Team by emailing td-voice@oit.rutgers.edu. Once purchased, the license will be assigned to your Rutgers Connect account, and you will gain the ability to make and receive calls from your Teams client. Questions or concerns about the purchasing and billing of this license feature should be directed to td-voice@oit.rutgers.edu.
When the purchase is made and the license is attached to the Rutgers Connect account, you will begin to see a dial pad in your Teams client. It will appear under the Calls app or tab in both mobile and desktop clients. Remember, once you have been given the softphone license, your desk phone will no longer operate, as the number is now being used by Teams. Questions about call connectivity, Teams operability, and/or calling functionality should be directed to the OIT Help Desk, which will work with the Connect Support team to provide support. 
Before You Begin 
1.	Ensure you have an active Rutgers NetID and you are signed into Microsoft Teams.
2.	Confirm that your Rutgers Connect account is enabled for Teams Calling. If you are unsure, please contact your department's IT support, who can check the status, and/or the voice services team at td-voice@oit.rutgers.edu. 
o	It may take up to 24 hours to see the new license features after purchasing. 
3.	Ensure you have a stable internet connection. 
A quick way to determine if you have the correct license is to locate the new dial pad in your Teams client, under the Calls tab.   
Checking Call Quality 
1.	During any Teams call or meeting, click More actions (?) on the toolbar.
2.	Select Call health from the dropdown.
3.	A panel will appear showing live data such as: 
o	Network strength
o	Audio/video device performance
o	Bitrate and packet loss
o	Local system status (CPU, memory, etc.) 
This is particularly useful if someone’s audio sounds choppy, video freezes, or there is a lag. It provides a quick insight into whether the issue is a network problem, a device issue, or something else. 
Certified Devices & Hardware 
You can sign into Teams on a desktop or laptop and use the native calling interface with a wired USB or certified Bluetooth headset. On mobile devices, the Teams mobile app allows you to make and receive calls using your Rutgers phone number, utilizing standard Teams app controls. On Teams-certified desk phones, you get a standalone Teams endpoint experience that's ideal for shared office spaces or where traditional desk phones remain preferred. Certified Teams Rooms hardware and peripherals enhance meeting room calling and conferencing, though most Teams softphones don’t require these specifically.
Interface on desktop 
 Error! Filename not specified. 
Interface on mobile
 Error! Filename not specified.     Error! Filename not specified.  
Making a Call 
1.	Open Microsoft Teams on your computer or mobile device.
2.	Select Calls from the left-hand navigation bar.  
o	If you don’t see the dial pad, you may not be provisioned for Teams Calling. Contact the software portal team if you’ve already made a purchase for this license and do not see the dial pad. 
3.	In the dial pad that appears, you can,  
o	Type the phone number you wish to call and press Call.
o	Search for a name or contact in the search bar and select the call icon next to your name.
4.	Your call will start, and you can manage it using the on-screen controls (mute, keypad, hold, transfer, etc.). 
Receiving a Call 
1.	When someone calls your Rutgers number, Teams will ring on all your signed-in devices (desktop, laptop, or mobile).
2.	Click Accept to answer or Decline to send it to voicemail. 
Checking Voicemail 
Voicemail moves over from Cisco to Teams once the Teams softphone license has been purchased and enabled on a Rutgers Connect account. Remember, calls will stop ringing on the desk phone once the license has been purchased and enabled. 
You can receive voicemail messages directly within the Teams app, whether on your desktop or mobile device. You will also receive a copy of the voicemail in an email to your Rutgers Connect account. 
1.	Go to the Calls tab in the Teams client. 
2.	Select the Voicemail tab to see and listen to messages. 
Voicemail transcription is available, making it easy to read missed messages. Notifications are sent instantly for new messages. You can customize greetings and manage voicemail settings under Settings > Calls > Configure Voicemail. 
If you are forwarding all desk calls to a personal cell phone number, the voicemail will be generated on the device that is receiving those forwarded calls.  
International Calling 
With the Teams softphone, you can make outbound international calls directly from the Teams client across supported countries and regions. Calls are routed securely through Rutgers’ existing voice infrastructure and Microsoft’s cloud-based calling services. 
Rates for international calls vary by destination. Contact Voice Services at td-voice@oit.rutgers.edu for details or restrictions. 
Tips for Best Call Quality
•	Use a wired headset or Teams-certified USB/Bluetooth device for clear audio.
•	Ensure you have a stable internet connection, wired preferred.
•	Avoid speakerphones unless necessary. It can introduce echo or feedback, especially in shared spaces.
•	Close background applications, such as video streaming services. Large downloads can consume significant bandwidth and negatively impact call quality. 
•	Try minimizing other internet activity during calls. Streaming, large uploads, or gaming can bog down the connection.
•	Use the Call Health dashboard: During a call, click the More actions (?) > Call Health to monitor your connection, device status, and real-time diagnostics.
•	You can also adjust Teams device settings by going to Settings > Devices in Teams to select and test your preferred mic, speaker, and camera. 
If you experience persistent call quality issues, please note the time and call details, obtain an example call that the IT teams can reference, and include information from the Call Quality Dashboard. Then, contact the OIT Help Desk. 
Options for Multiple Numbers in Teams 
A standard Teams Phone license allows one direct phone number per you. There are ways to support it, but phone masking and multiple numbers are not natively supported when purchasing the softphone license. If you are requesting multiple phone numbers to be tied to the same softphone license, please contact td-voice@oit.rutgers.edu with your request prior to purchasing a license to discuss options.  
Emergency Calling Behavior 
Teams softphones are configured to support location-based emergency calling to 911. Location information is tied to the Teams client settings, so be sure to update your location information in your Teams client once the license is purchased. You can also check your emergency location below the dial pad in the Calls tab.  
Teams will reuse saved locations when you reconnect to the same network. In the Calls tab underneath your phone number, there is a section under your listed number that includes your current emergency location. Ensure that the correct location is set; you may need to adjust your machine's location settings.  
Enable Location Services on Your Device 
Windows
1.	Go to Start > Settings > Privacy & Security > Location.
2.	Turn on Let apps access your location.
3.	Ensure Microsoft Teams is listed and enabled under desktop apps 
macOS
1.	Open System Preferences > Security & Privacy > Privacy.
2.	Unlock settings and go to Location Services.
3.	Check the box for Microsoft Teams Helper (GPU).
Open Teams and Access Emergency Location Settings 
1.	Launch Microsoft Teams.
2.	Click the three dots next to your profile picture (top right).
3.	Select Settings.
4.	Go to the Calls section.
5.	Scroll down to find Emergency Location. 
Add or Update Your Emergency Address 
1.	Under Current Emergency Location, click the dropdown.
2.	Choose Add or Reset.
3.	Enter your full address manually (use correct punctuation and spacing). 
o	Example: 902 East Main Street, Anytown, Florida, 33801, US
o	Avoid abbreviations like 902 E Main St Anytown FL 33801 US
4.	Confirm and Save the address.
Microsoft will attempt to best-guess your emergency location if no location has been specified or verified. It’s important to verify your emergency address within the Teams client to avoid complications.  
Phone Number Masking 
There is limited support for phone number masking due to complications with combining two different systems. Though masking is not enabled by default for Teams softphones, you can submit your request, use case, and requirements to td-voice@oit.rutgers.edu for review.  
FAQs 
•	What is a Teams softphone and how does it work?
•	Do I need to keep Teams running to receive calls? 
•	Can I use Teams softphone on mobile devices?
•	How do I make a call using Teams softphone?
•	Can I transfer or forward calls?
•	Can I add multiple people to a call? 
•	Is voicemail available? 
•	Can I mask my phone number during calls?
•	Is Teams softphone secure for sensitive conversations?
•	Why can’t I receive calls on Teams?
•	How do I find my Teams softphone number?
•	Can I use my softphone number for MFA (Multi-Factor Authentication)?
•	Can I switch between devices during a call?
•	Is there a difference in functionality between desktop and mobile apps?
•	How long is call history retained in Teams?
•	Does chat during a call get saved?
•	Will frequently contacted people show up in search?
What is a Teams softphone and how does it work?
A softphone in Teams allows you to make and receive calls over the internet using the Teams app, similar to a traditional phone but without physical hardware. 
Do I need to keep Teams running to receive calls? 
Yes, the Teams app must be logged into and connected to the internet to receive softphone calls. Make sure your mobile Teams application is set to run in the background and that you are logged into your Teams desktop applications to ensure call delivery.  
Can I use Teams softphone on mobile devices?
Yes. Teams has a mobile app that works on iOS and Android, and calls can be made or received via the mobile app. Make sure you are using the Teams application from the Company Portal application on your registered mobile device.  
How do I make a call using Teams softphone?
Open your Teams client and use the dial pad in the Calls tab, or start a call from a chat or contact. 
Can I transfer or forward calls?
Yes, you can transfer calls, record calls, put calls on-hold and transfer between calls seamlessly. You can also set up call forwarding in your Teams settings.  
Can I add multiple people to a call? 
Yes, you can initiate group calls or add participants during a call.  
Is voicemail available? 
Teams includes cloud-based voicemail with transcription. A copy of the voicemail will live in your Teams client under the “Calls” section, and a copy should be delivered to your Rutgers Connect mailbox. You can record greetings, adjust your “send to voicemail” settings, and check past messages in the Teams client.  
Can I mask my phone number during calls?
you can request phone masking from the Rutgers Voice Services team, as masking is not natively included with the Teams softphone license. To get started, submit your request to <td-voice@oit.rutgers.edu>. 
Is Teams softphone secure for sensitive conversations?
Yes, Teams uses enterprise-grade encryption and supports compliance features like E911. 
Why can’t I receive calls on Teams?
Check your internet connection, ensure Teams is running, and verify your phone number assignment and license purchase.  
How do I find my Teams softphone number?
Your number is typically listed in the Calls tab in your Teams client, or can be provided by the voice services team.  
Can I use my softphone number for MFA (Multi-Factor Authentication)?
Though it is possible, we strongly recommend NOT adding the Teams softphone number to your MFA devices as it is less secure than standard push notifications.  
Can I switch between devices during a call?
Yes, Teams supports seamless transitions between desktop and mobile apps. 
Is there a difference in functionality between desktop and mobile apps?
Some advanced features (like call parking or delegation) may be easier to manage on desktop. 
How long is call history retained in Teams?
Typically, call history is visible for 30 to 45 days. 
Does chat during a call get saved?
Yes, chat activity during calls is stored in your mailbox and follows retention policies. 
Will frequently contacted people show up in search?
Yes, Teams suggests contacts based on collaboration history.
" KB0019208 Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams Phone Transition Checklist "
Rutgers offers a softphone solution that utilizes the Microsoft Teams client (available to anyone with a Rutgers Connect account) while continuing to support the existing Cisco hardware and infrastructure used for desk phones. This hybrid approach offers the flexibility of mobile communication without compromising access to the robust voice architecture already in place.Refer to the Microsoft Teams Phone Experience article for more information on using the service. 
Follow these four steps to ensure a smooth transition to your new service. 
Step 1: Pre-Migration Review 
Review and save your current data. 
•	Action Required: Access your Cisco voicemail; once the migration begins, the account will be deleted and cannot be restored. 
•	Backup: Manually save any important contacts or speed dials from your current system. 
Step 2: Request Service 
Create a request via email. 
•	Contact: Email td-voice@oit.rutgers.edu with the following details:  
o	GL String & Business Manager Name 
o	Department Name 
o	Your current phone number (if applicable) 
•	Timeline: 3–5 business days for processing. 
•	Awareness: The migration process typically takes a couple of hours. During this window, phone services will be unavailable while engineers move the numbers. 
Step 3: Post-Provisioning Review 
Test your new services. 
•	Inbound: Verify you can receive calls. 
•	Outbound: Verify you can make calls (e.g., call your cell phone without dialing '91' first). 
•	Safety: Review your 911 emergency location information for accuracy. 
Step 4: Final Setup & Personalization 
Configure your user settings. 
•	Voicemail: Set up your new greeting. 
•	Integration: Test the "Voicemail-to-Email" functionality within Microsoft Teams. 
•	Directory: Review and update your information in the system directory. 
" KB0018960 Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams – New Meeting Options "
What new meeting options are available in Microsoft Teams?
The Rutgers Connect M365 tenant now offers two new Microsoft Teams meeting styles – Webinars and Town Halls. These new meeting styles are an extension of the existing Microsoft Teams meetings that Rutgers already supports, including 1-1 calling, ad?hoc meetings, and traditional scheduled meetings. Teams' webinars and Town Halls are unique; each meeting style comes with different capabilities available to all Rutgers faculty, staff, guests, and students who use Microsoft Teams.  
To identify which meeting style best suits users' needs, please refer to Microsoft's article comparing meetings, webinars, and town halls. 
Locating the new meeting options in Microsoft Teams
1.	Open Microsoft Teams.
2.	Go to Calendar > New Event. 

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Open the drop-down menu to view the available meeting types.

Error! Filename not specified.
If the Webinar or Town Hall options are missing, check both the desktop and web clients to confirm they are unavailable. Ensure you are signed in to the correct Teams account, and try restarting or signing out and then signing back in. If the options still do not appear, contact help@oit.rutgers.edu for assistance.
For more information about using Meetings, Webinars, and Town Halls in Microsoft Teams, please refer to Microsoft's meeting overview guide.
Deciding between a Webinar and a Town Hall in Microsoft Teams
Webinars are best suited when: 
•	The event is a structured, presenter?led session for a moderate?sized audience (up to 1,000 attendees).
•	The format includes both presentations and interactive elements, such as polls, Q&A sessions, or moderated discussions.
•	Attendee information must be collected in advance through registration, and access needs to be controlled.
•	A more formal environment is required than a standard Teams meeting, but with less production complexity than a town hall.
•	Post-event reporting, engagement metrics, and follow-up capabilities are necessary.
•	A familiar meeting interface is preferred for presenters and attendees, with optional branding or registration customization.
Town Halls are best suited when: 
•	The event is intended for a large audience (10,000+ attendees).
•	The experience is primarily consumption?focused, with attendees watching or listening rather than actively participating.
•	A polished, production?style presentation is desired, including layout control, presenter transitions, and branding.
•	An extended runtime (up to 30 hours) is required for continuous coverage or multi?segment sessions.
•	Attendee audio, video, or open chat is not required, and interaction will occur through Q&A or other moderated engagement. 
See Webinars in Microsoft Teams for further guidance on webinars and Town Halls in Microsoft Teams for additional information about town halls.
" KB0012697 Microsoft Teams Teams Video Conferencing "
There are three different ways to set up a meeting within Teams. You can schedule the meeting to happen in Teams through your Rutgers Connect calendar, through the Teams application itself, or use meet now to instantly start a meeting. You can perform all three without needing to create a Team or be a part of a specific team. Microsoft Teams gives you the ability to share a link to an ongoing or upcoming meeting with others, as well as edit your calendar events related to your meetings right in the application.
Table of Contents
•	Schedule a Meeting via your Email Client
•	Schedule a Teams Meeting in the Teams Application
•	Meet Now in Teams
•	Direct Calls
Schedule a Meeting via your Email Client
You can schedule a meeting to happen in Teams right from your email client. On Rutgers Connect, while you are creating the event, near the location field there is a toggle labeled Teams meeting, which will add the meeting details once the event has been created.
The event details will look like this after the selection has been made and the event has been created in your calendar:
Error! Filename not specified.
Users who are invited can click on the join link directly from the event preview:
Error! Filename not specified.
If you use the Outlook desktop application, navigate to your Calendar and select the New Teams Meeting option in the top banner. If you don’t see this option, make sure you are running the latest version of your client and that you have downloaded and logged into the Teams application before. If you still do not see it, close Outlook and Teams completely. Open Teams, and then open Outlook. If you are still facing issues, contact the OIT Help Desk.
Error! Filename not specified.
Schedule a Teams Meeting in the Teams Application
Open the Teams application and navigate to the Calendar section on the left-hand side.
This should pull up your current calendar, as well as the calendar events for any group or team you may be a member of. On the top right side of the page, you’ll see two options: Meet now, and New Meeting.
Error! Filename not specified.
The drop-down menu to the right of New Meeting lets you specify whether you are creating a meeting or a live event. To schedule a meeting later, select New Meeting which will bring up the calendar event details. There’s also the Scheduling Assistant available to you to assist with finding an ideal date and time.
Error! Filename not specified.
Once the event has been created, you should see it on your calendar in Rutgers Connect. Included in the event details that all recipients of the meeting invitation or calendar event will use to connect to the meeting (same as if created via your calendar):
Meet Now in Teams
Teams allows you to set up an impromptu meeting without needing one to be scheduled. In the Calendar section, in the top right, select Meet Now.
This will create a room for you to hold a meeting in. It will let you edit the name of the room to suit the meeting’s needs, and prompt you with the device(s) you are currently connected to. After updating this information, select Join Now which will make you the meeting host, with a prompt suggesting that you invite users to join you. You can either invite Rutgers user and non-Rutgers users.
To invite a user within Rutgers Connect, type their name in the Invite someone field of the People section. Currently, only certain users (those with an E5 license) can dial and call numbers directly, as well as dial-in to Teams meetings. To get a shareable invite link, select the chain-link next to the Invite someone field to copy the link to your clipboard:
Error! Filename not specified.
If you are a user with an E5 license and wish to dial into a meeting, note that the meeting host must accept the call before you are able to join, even with the correct conference ID. This is important for meeting hosts to be aware of too If you suggest an attendee dial-in, be prepared to accept the call when prompted before the user can be connected.
Internal and external users will be able to click on the link to join the meeting directly. During the meeting, Teams allows you to screen share during the call and share documents, paste links, etc. in the chat window that accompanies the meeting. Once the meeting has concluded, the chat history is saved and can be viewed again in the “Chat” section of your Teams application.
Direct Calls
To reach an individual user directly, you can call them in Microsoft Teams. In the Calls section of your application, you’ll be able to direct message or call any user within the Rutgers Connect tenant. You can see if someone is online, offline, busy, etc. to check if they’re available for a call. Teams will remember who you chat with the most and put them as a speed dial to reach them faster. You can view your call history and voicemails as well. 
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0012725 Microsoft Teams What is Microsoft Teams "
Microsoft Teams is a collaboration tool that is part of the Office 365 suite of services. Teams enables remote or dispersed groups to work together and collaborate through a common workspace. Features such as team chat, one-on-one chat, document collaboration, and more exist to streamline collaboration. Teams is integrated with a variety of other Office 365 services, including OneDrive, OneNote, Planner, Exchange, and SharePoint.
It brings your team’s conversations, meetings, storage, files, application integration, and notes together into a single place for open and seamless collaboration.
Learn more in the video What is Microsoft Teams?
What can I do with Teams?
Teams makes communicating one-on-one and with groups a snap. Teams is built on top of Office 365 Groups in Rutgers Connect and provides group members with an option for real-time collaboration using a chat-based workspace. Chats are kept for easy searching, and the experience is customizable so that you can follow the discussion channels that interest you and hide those that do not. Teams will allow you to be more agile and spontaneous in your communication, including impromptu meetings with your group members, whereas groups are used more for occasional communication through conversations.
It’s also a great resource for accessing your group’s files and communications in one place. Instead of navigating from your group’s mailbox to its OneDrive, then to the group’s OneNote and SharePoint site, you can view it all in a single location. Teams allows you to integrate a variety of Office 365 applications that you or your group may use, while making it easier to open a discussion or reference files.
How do I transition to Teams?
With Teams, you can engage in more real-time collaboration, such as editing a document simultaneously with all your group members. You also get chat, forum, and email archives in a more streamlined interface, utilizing chat-based discussion channels. You can instantly meet within Teams with one or more members of your group. If you have a site with files that you’d like to migrate, OneDrive offers unlimited storage for groups.
Consider switching to using Teams for your weekly status meetings or to enhance your hiring process by gathering feedback on candidates.
" KB0012896 Microsoft Teams FAQ How can I use Teams for real-time collaboration? "
Keeping everyone in your group informed can be challenging, but Teams allows you to create channels of chat-based discussion on the topics important to your group. You can do everything from brainstorm ideas for a new building design to conducting an informal poll on where to go for lunch. You can choose which tabs appear within each channel so that everyone can see important shared content like project specifications or links to Office documents like Word, Excel, and PowerPoint.
Need to get immediate feedback on a project idea? With Teams, you can hold an online Skype-based meeting instantly with all members of your group or have a private meeting with your manager. While you could use Skype for Business as well, the conversations and meetings are not saved in a single, organized location. Teams lets you keep your conversations and meetings within the context of your discussion channels for easy reference when you need it.
For more information about communication and collaboration within Microsoft Teams, please visit Team and channel topics FAQ on Microsoft Support.
" KB0012898 Microsoft Teams FAQ How does integration with your existing applications work in Teams? "
Microsoft Teams is designed to work seamlessly with both Microsoft 365 applications and a wide range of third-party tools, helping organizations enhance productivity without disrupting their existing workflows. Its integration capabilities allow you to bring the applications your teams already use directly into the Teams environment. Teams enables integration through the use of connectors and apps that can be added to channels. These connectors make it possible to receive real-time updates and notifications from external systems like project management platforms, customer support tools, bug-tracking software, and analytics dashboards—all within the context of your ongoing team discussions. 

Microsoft Teams acts as a central hub that connects your people, content, and tools by integrating with the applications you already depend on. Whether you’re enhancing communication with third-party services, streamlining document collaboration through SharePoint, or building custom extensions to support your processes, Teams enables a more unified and productive digital workplace. 

" KB0012894 Microsoft Teams FAQ What is Teams? "
Microsoft Teams is a chat-based collaboration tool that is part of the Office 365 suite of services. Teams enables remote, global and dispersed teams to work together and collaborate through a common workspace, team chat, one-on-one chat, document collaboration and more.
Teams is integrated with a variety of other Office 365 services, including Skype, Yammer, Exchange, and SharePoint. It’s a messaging app that brings your team’s conversations, meetings, files, and notes together into a single place for open and seamless collaboration, where the latest updates can be accessed by everyone on the team. It’s a place for teamwork to happen in the open.
Why should you use it? It makes communicating one-on-one and with groups a snap. Collaboration happens in real time. All your stuff is there for everyone to help work on. Further information regarding Microsoft Teams at Rutgers can be found on the Rutgers IT site for Microsoft Teams. 
" KB0012897 Microsoft Teams FAQ What is the knowledge base within Teams? "
Because all of the chats within Teams are searchable, you can gather useful knowledge on any issues within your group. These issues could be turned into process and guideline documentation. An example of this could be a service unit that gets a lot of student foot traffic. The questions asked by students and the answers could be initially obtained via discussions in a chat channel, but later could be turned into a Wiki tab for new employees.
" KB0012900 Microsoft Teams FAQ What should I be aware of with Teams? "
There are several things to consider when adding Teams to your groups. Guest access is available; however, there are some limitations. Visit Microsoft's support page for additional information on guest access.
If you have an existing OneNote notebook in your group, it will not be visible from within Teams. You can only create new sections within Teams and view existing and new sections of your notebook in the OneNote app directly or in the notebook of your group. You can access Teams on a variety of platforms, but some browsers, such as Firefox or Chrome, may provide a better experience.
" KB0012895 Microsoft Teams FAQ Why should I use Teams? "
Microsoft Teams is a communication and collaboration platform developed by Microsoft as part of the Microsoft 365 suite. It is designed to bring people, content, and tools together in one place, making it easier to collaborate efficiently whether you're in the same office or working remotely. 

Teams integrates chat, video meetings, file storage, and app integration, making it a hub for teamwork. One of the key advantages is that it brings together different modes of communication into a single platform. You can move seamlessly between sending a quick message, starting a video call, or collaborating on a shared document without needing to switch tools. Security and compliance are built into the platform. Teams follows enterprise-grade security protocols and supports a range of compliance standards, including data loss prevention and information governance. This ensures that organizations can maintain control over sensitive information while still enabling productive collaboration.
Microsoft Teams serves as a centralized platform that brings together communication, collaboration, and productivity tools in a way that aligns with the needs of modern workplaces. By combining chat, meetings, file sharing, and app integrations in one secure and scalable environment, it helps teams stay connected, organized, and efficient, no matter the location. 
" KB0017607 Mobile App Apps page in myRutgers mobile app "
The Apps page contains a library of apps available from Rutgers. Along the top is the search bar. Type into here to search across all Apps. Results will filter as you type. 
Underneath that you will find 3 tabs: 
Error! Filename not specified.
•	Favorites are any apps that you have favorited.
•	For You are apps recommended to you based on your role and campus.
•	All Apps allows you browse the entire collection of Rutgers Apps regardless of campus or role. 
If you don’t have any Apps favorited, the My Apps page will default to the For You tab.
Favorites tab
Any apps you have favorited will appear in this tab. To favorite an app, navigate to the All Apps or For You section, then tap the heart icon next to the app's name or in the lower-right corner. Unfavorite an app by clicking it again. It will then be removed. 
Error! Filename not specified.
A move icon (two horizontal lines) appears on the top-right of each app tile, which allows you to move the tile to the preferred position. Click and drag the icon to change your favorites order. Your progress is saved after each move.
Error! Filename not specified.
For You tab
Here you will find apps recommended for your role and campus. The images along the top relate to the categories recommended to you. Tap the image to dive into that category. As you scroll down, you will see more apps available to you grouped by category. You may add apps to your favorites by clicking the heart icon as you browse.
Error! Filename not specified.
All Apps tab
These are all apps available to all campuses and roles. They are grouped by category. Click into any of the categories via the image carousel on top or scroll down to view more. You can browse the categories by swiping left or right to see more. You can also click See All to expand the entire category. You may add apps to your favorites by clicking the heart icon as you browse.
Error! Filename not specified.
On all these pages, clicking the app icon opens the link associated with that app. You can also click the (i) info icon to learn more about that app and see pictures attached to it. Click the back button to get back to the apps page.
Error! Filename not specified.
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017617 Mobile App Dashboard Settings in myRutgers mobile app "
In the myRutgers mobile app you can Reset Tutorials, Restore Widgets or Toggle Sensitive Data.
•	Reset Tutorials will allow you to trigger all tutorials to be visible again in their respective widgets.  
•	Restore Widgets will set your dashboard back to the default configuration.
•	Toggle Sensitive Data will either display or hide data such as grades, GPA, money, and more.
These options can be found by going to Settings > Dashboard and choosing the appropriate option. 
Error! Filename not specified.    Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017626 Mobile App How to use the map in myRutgers mobile app "
The Maps page allows you to view Rutgers' campuses, available bus routes, and parking lots. 
Bus Stops and Routes
Stops will be displayed by pins on the map. If you click a pin, you select that stop and view its information. Any routes that contain that stop will display at the bottom. The tiles display when the next bus will arrive.
Error! Filename not specified.
If you click on the tile, you will select that route. The map will change to show the route.
Error! Filename not specified.
Also, a new button is displayed in the top nav bar. This is the View Route Times button.
Error! Filename not specified.
Clicking this button displays the route stops and times when the next bus or buses are arriving.
Error! Filename not specified.
When you select a stop or bus, it will display information about that item. To exit and unselect that stop, slide the pop-up down or tap on the map.
Error! Filename not specified.
When you select a route, it will display on the map. To exit and unselect that route, use the back arrow in the upper left corner.
Error! Filename not specified.
Parking Lots
Parking lots managed by Rutgers are outlined and highlighted in blue. If you click on a parking lot, you select it and view its information and an image of the lot. 
Error! Filename not specified.
Toggle Filters
At the top left of the map, a series of buttons toggles various map features, showing and hiding the locations of bus stops and parking lots.
Error! Filename not specified.
•	Bus Filter: Toggles the bus stops to appear on the map
•	All: Toggles all the Rutgers parking lots to be highlighted on the map
•	myPermit: Toggles the parking lots your permit allows you to park in to be highlighted on the map
•	FacStaff: Toggles the Faculty/Staff parking lots to be highlighted on the map
•	Student: Toggles the student parking lots to be highlighted on the map
•	Additional Filters: Allows you to filter parking lots based on handicap spots, EV charging stations, covered parking spots, and gated parking lots
" KB0017627 Mobile App Leaving feedback in the myRutgers mobile app "
If you would like to leave feedback on how to enhance the app, report an issue, or share general feedback, you may do so in the app. 
1.	Go to Settings.
2.	Click on Feedback Form.
3.	Fill out the following fields: 
o	Type: You can select from Enhancement, Issue, or General.  
o	Title: Provide an accurate title for your feedback.
o	Description: To the best of your ability, describe the feedback you wish to give. The more information, the better.
o	Email: Provide your email so we can reach out to you if necessary.
4.	Click Submit. 
Error! Filename not specified.   Error! Filename not specified.
 
" KB0017630 Mobile App Light and Dark mode in myRutgers mobile app "
You can control if your mobile app appears in light or dark mode. You can manage this by going to Settings and clicking on Appearance. 
 
Error! Filename not specified.
 
On the Appearance page you will see an option to Set dark mode automatically. If this is checked, the myRutgers app will detect the preferences of your device and use that to determine whether to show light or dark mode.
If you uncheck this box, another option appears called Dark Mode. Having this checked will always keep the app in dark mode. Leaving it unchecked will have the app always in light mode. 
 
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017631 Mobile App Main menu in myRutgers mobile app "
The bottom menu is how you will navigate between myRutgers pages. There are 5 icons in total, from left to right.
Error! Filename not specified.
Dashboard
This brings you to the Dashboard home page. It holds a variety of widgets related to you and services you may need at Rutgers. 
Apps
This brings you to the library of Apps that Rutgers has available. On this page, there will be 3 tabs along the top.
•	Favorites: are any apps that you have favorited.
•	For You: are apps recommended to you based on your role and campus.
•	All Apps: allows youto  browse the entire collection of Rutgers Apps regardless of campus or role.  
MyCommunity
This brings you to the Rutgers social media site. Interact with others, start discussions, and get the latest news.  
News
Access News related to Rutgers.
Maps
Get access to real-time bus data, arrival times, stops available, and building information.
Notifications
Additional icons are a part of the main menu at the top. 
Error! Filename not specified.
Any notifications you have will be displayed here. You can mark notifications as read. You can also view your history of past notifications.
Settings
Configure settings related to your profile. Logout can also be found here.  
 
" KB0017611 Mobile App Managing widgets on the myRutgers Dashboard mobile app "
The Dashboard widgets are customizable. Based on your role, you are given a default set of widgets on your Dashboard. Your dashboard layout will be in-sync for both web and mobile. You will only need to update it once on either the web portal or mobile app.
Add a widget
1.	In my Dashboard section, tap the + icon on the top.
2.	In the Add Widget screen, tap the + icon on the bottom-right corner of a widget card to add it.
Error! Filename not specified.
Reorder and remove a widget
1.	Select the Dashboard.
2.	Select the icon with three horizontal lines on the left side.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Select Edit towards the bottom.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Select the minus sign next to an item to remove it. Then select Delete to confirm.
5.	Press and hold the 2 lines icon to drag a widget into a new position.
6.	Select Done to save your changes.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017615 Mobile App Maps page in myRutgers mobile app "
The Maps page lets you view Rutgers campuses, available bus routes, and parking locations. While viewing the map, you can click the bullseye icon to center the map around your current location.
Along the top are the Map's menu items, including View Routes and Stops and Select Campus.
Error! Filename not specified.
View Route and Stops
This will pull up a page with two lists.
Routes
Contains all of the routes available on Rutgers Campuses.
Error! Filename not specified.
Stops
Contains all of the stops available on Rutgers Campuses.
Error! Filename not specified.
Select Campus
Select which campus you would like to display. Your selection is saved, so if you navigate away and come back, your campus of choice will be saved.
Error! Filename not specified.
View Parking Lots
Contains a list of all Rutgers-managed parking lots. 
Error! Filename not specified.
Filter Panel
On the left side of the Maps page, there are toggles for Rutgers-managed parking lots and bus stops.  
Error! Filename not specified.
Toggle Functions
In descending order, the functions of the toggle tiles are:
•	Bus Stops - Shows all bus stops indicated by a red icon.
•	All - Highlights all Parking locations managed by Rutgers.
•	myPermit - Highlights parking locations associated with your purchased parking permit.
•	FacStaff - Highlights all Faculty and Staff parking locations.
•	Student - Highlights all Student parking locations.
Additional Parking Filters
Contains a list of parking lot features to filter results. 
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017636 Mobile App News page in myRutgers mobile app "
The news page contains a variety of news sources and articles about everything that is happening at Rutgers.
Home Page
On the home page, you'll see various articles displayed in chronological order, with the most recent at the top.
Error! Filename not specified.
If you click on the article, you are now in the single article selected screen. Some additional information about the article is presented here: an optional description, how long ago it was posted, who posted it, and the news source it is from. Click Read More to go to the actual article. Hit the back button in the upper left to go back to the News homepage.
Error! Filename not specified.
Along the top are the icons for Searching, viewing News Sources, and setting Subscriptions. 
Error! Filename not specified.
View News Sources and set Subscriptions
Selecting the page icon pulls up a list of news sources available. Click on one to view all articles from that source. Toggle the box to subscribe or unsubscribe to that source. Some news sources cannot be unsubscribed, and you will see a disabled checkbox next to them.
Error! Filename not specified.
Search
Type into the search bar to narrow down what news articles you are looking at based on what was typed. Hit enter to search. 
" KB0017638 Mobile App Top navigation bar in the myRutgers mobile app "
Along the top are the dashboard menu items. There are 4 icons in total. From left to right:
Error! Filename not specified.
Add a Widget
You can add additional widgets to your dashboard here. Options available to you will be displayed in the center of the screen. You may also search by name for a widget and filter by category using the dropdown menu on the right side. Each widget has a down arrow to display more information and a plus sign to select the widget. You may select multiple widgets at a time. Add them by clicking Select a Widget in the lower right. 
If you want to reorder your widgets, click the open/close menu button in the top left and then click the down arrow next to Dashboard. Click on Reorder Widgets. Drag and drop to reorder widgets as you see fit to put the ones you use most towards the top. You may also delete a widget from your dashboard. Some widgets cannot be removed. Click Set Order in the lower right to save changes.
Error! Filename not specified.
Search
You may search from one of four categories: People, Websites, RBHS, and Buildings. Select your categor, andy then enter the search term you are looking for.
Error! Filename not specified.
Notifications
Any notifications you have will be displayed here. You can mark notifications as read. You can also view your history of past notifications. 
Error! Filename not specified.
Settings
Allows you to edit the settings for the mobile app. 
" KB0017640 Mobile App Using Biometric Authentication for myRutgers "
On the myRutgers mobile app, under Settings, there is an item called Biometric Authentication. Here you can enable or disable Biometric access with Touch ID or Face ID. If you would like to require this authentication anytime you open the app, enable the toggle for your device. If it is enabled, you can disable it by clicking the toggle. You can also look at other authorized devices and whether or not they have Biometrics enabled. To enable biometrics in the app, you must have Touch ID and/or Face ID configured on your device.
This feature is only available in the mobile app and is not accessible from the web portal.
 
" KB0016637 Mobile Device Support How to Uninstall TikTok "
iOS
1.	Touch and hold the TikTok app icon on your device.
2.	Click Remove App > Delete App > Delete.
Android
Method 1
1.	Tap and hold the TikTok app in the app drawer or on the home screen.
2.	Drag it to the Uninstall section that appears on the screen.
3.	Click OK when the pop-up window appears.
Method 2
1.	Open the Google Play Store app.
2.	In the top-right corner, click the Profile icon.
3.	click Manage apps & devices > Manage.
4.	Select the TikTok app.
5.	Click Uninstall.
" KB0017964 myCommunity my Community - Group Members "
You can find the members of a group by clicking the Members tab. Any person who is a part of the group will be shown here.
Error! Filename not specified.
If you are already connected with a person, you can unfollow, remove the connection, or send a direct message with the 3 action buttons on each connection.
Error! Filename not specified.
If you encounter a member you are not connected to, you can follow or connect with them.
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017937 myCommunity myCommunity - Account Settings "
myCommunity gives you a lot of granular control over your information and who can see it. One way to do this is through Privacy Settings. To access Privacy Settings, click your profile image in the top right of myCommunity to open a drop-down menu. From here, select Privacy Settings. Just like from the edit details page, you can change who can see the information on your profile. Select any drop-down with visibility options and change it from Public to any of the 3 other options. Click the Save Changes at the bottom to keep your changes.  
There are 3 other subpages to check within Privacy Settings. Blocked members, Group Invites, and Export Data. 
Error! Filename not specified.
You may block other members in the event they are harassing you or interacting with you in ways you do not want. You may also unblock members from this page.
Error! Filename not specified.
Group invites contain any invites you have received to a group within myCommunity. These invites would show up here if a group organizer reached out and asked you to join their group. You have the ability via the checkbox to Restrict Group invites to members who are connected. This would help with unwanted invites if you receive many of them.
Error! Filename not specified.
To meet GDPR standards, we allow you to export all data created on this platform. Press the Request Data Export at the bottom to initiate the download.
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017971 myCommunity myCommunity - Communications and University Messages "
Communications are high-level messages sent out by the University. You can view all university messages by clicking the “Communications” icon. You can also view messages by campus by selecting one of the options from the drop-down menu.
Error! Filename not specified.
On the University Messages home page, you can view the image and brief description of a message. Click on an item to learn more.
Error! Filename not specified.
Opening an article displays its title, the author who posted it, the date it was posted, and its content. 
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017942 myCommunity myCommunity - Connection Requests "
When you come across another person in myCommunity, you can connect with that person via a connection request. Connections are a two-way street. You cannot connect with someone who does not want to connect with you.
There are various ways to find a person. This example will be done using member search.
On the members page, you can search for someone using the Filter Results section. Once you find who you are looking for, click Add connection on their profile card. 
Error! Filename not specified.
That person will get a notification that you sent them a connection request. They must click on this notification to be brought to their pending requests.
Error! Filename not specified.
Under the Requests tab in Connections, there will be an open connection request. They can either Accept or Ignore this request. 
Error! Filename not specified.
After the request has been accepted, they will show up under My Connections. 
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017939 myCommunity myCommunity - Connections "
Connections are friends, acquaintances, colleagues, group leaders, or anyone else you might want to connect with at Rutgers. The more connections you have, the more posts you will see and the more outreach your posts will have. To get to Connections, click your profile image in the top right of myCommunity to open a drop-down menu. From here, select Connections.      
Error! Filename not specified.
You can apply several filters to your connections to narrow down which ones you are currently viewing. You can filter by role, such as student, staff, alumni, or guests. You can also filter by active, newest, or alphabetical. The view layout defaults to the grid. If you wish, you may switch to a list view.
Error! Filename not specified.
Within a single connection. You can follow, remove the connection, or send a direct message with the 3 action buttons on each connection.
Error! Filename not specified.
Next to My Connections is Requests. Here, you will find any pending requests you have.
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017920 myCommunity myCommunity - Cover Photo "
You have the option to set a cover photo for your Community account. This will show behind your profile picture on your page. 
Error! Filename not specified.
If you hover over your current cover photo, two buttons will appear in the top left. These are the “Change Cover Photo” and “Reposition Cover Photo” buttons.
Error! Filename not specified.
Change Cover Photo allows you to upload a new photo. You can upload a photo by dragging and dropping a saved image or clicking Select Your File. You can also delete your current cover photo.
Error! Filename not specified.
"Reposition Cover Photo" allows you to edit and reposition your current cover photo. Clicking this button enters edit mode. You can drag the cover photo to move it. Press Cancel to discard your changes. Press Save Changes button to save your revisions.
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017976 myCommunity myCommunity - Dark Mode "
By default, the theme will match the dark mode preferences you have set in myRutgers. In the lower right of the myCommunity page, there is the “Light mode/Dark mode” button.
 Error! Filename not specified.
Clicking this will toggle your view between light and dark mode. 
Light mode
Error! Filename not specified.
Dark mode
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017948 myCommunity myCommunity - Files "
On your profile, you have the ability to upload a variety of different files, including videos, photos, and documents. You can then share these files with others in myCommunity. Your connections can also view the files you upload. 
Error! Filename not specified.
Error! Filename not specified.
Error! Filename not specified.
You can upload files by clicking Add and selecting your file, or by dragging and dropping the file. As you upload the file, you can also set its visibility using the drop-down in the lower left.  
Error! Filename not specified.
The Photos tab lets you create albums to group your photos. Give the album a name, then select which photos or videos you want for it. You can also change the album name by clicking Edit and setting the visibility settings for each album. 
Error! Filename not specified.
Error! Filename not specified.
Using the “More actions” button, you can move a file to a new location, and for videos, you can change what thumbnail frame is used.
Error! Filename not specified.
Documents allow you to put multiple files into a single folder using the “Create Folder” button. You can name the folder and select the privacy level.
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017966 myCommunity myCommunity - Forums and Discussions "
Forums are where you can find groups and discussions. Discussions are owned by groups. They are the activity feed for a specific group. 
Error! Filename not specified.
On the Forums home page, you'll see a list of different groups. There is also a search feature to help you find what you are looking for.
Error! Filename not specified.
As you start typing into the search bar, the results will filter as you type. It will display both groups and posts within a discussion.
Error! Filename not specified.
Discussions you are part of will appear under My Discussions.
Error! Filename not specified.
My Replies contain any discussion you have contributed to.
Error! Filename not specified.
Any discussions you have favorited will show up under My Favorites.
Error! Filename not specified.
Any discussion can be subscribed to and favorited. You can also unsubscribe and unfavorite. With the discussion page open, use the buttons on the right. 
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017965 myCommunity myCommunity - Group Requests "
Sending a group invite
Group moderators or organizers can invite others to their group using the Send Invites tab. If a group is public, any member can use this tab. Search for someone and press the "Invite" button next to their name. You can select multiple people and add an invitation message. Press Send to complete the invitation to the group. 
Error! Filename not specified.
Accepting a group invite
You will receive a notification that you have a new group request. You can Accept or Reject it. Once accepted, it will appear in your My Groups section. 
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017975 myCommunity myCommunity - How to compose a message "
myCommunity lets you reach out to your peers directly and view the direct messages sent to you. You can access all your messages through the messages home page.
Clicking on the “Messages” icon will pull up a drop-down preview of your messages. You can click on a message to view the entire thread of that message. 
Error! Filename not specified.
You can also click on View Inbox to view all messages.
Error! Filename not specified.
Create a new message to send to another person by clicking the “Compose new message” button.
Error! Filename not specified.
Place your cursor in the “To:” box and start typing to find members.
Error! Filename not specified.
As you type, recommendations will be provided. These come from your connections. Select a user from the options.
Error! Filename not specified.
Write your message to this person.
Error! Filename not specified.
You can attach a photo, video, document, gif, or emoji to the message.
Error! Filename not specified.Error! Filename not specified.Error! Filename not specified.Error! Filename not specified.Error! Filename not specified.
Click on the “Show formatting” button to pull features such as Bold, Italics, bullet points, and more.
Error! Filename not specified.
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017963 myCommunity myCommunity - How to create a group "
On the right-hand side of myCommunity, in the Groups section, click New Group Request to create a new group. 
Error! Filename not specified.
Fill out the mandatory fields and click Submit. Your group will go for review, and you will be notified if it is approved.
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017958 myCommunity myCommunity - How to create a post in the Activity Feed "
If you want to create a post, you can find the option at the top of the Activity Feed. 
Error! Filename not specified.
From here, you can use a variety of additional features. If you wish to exit the post, you can do so via the “X” button in the top right or by clicking in the grayed-out area outside the prompt.
Error! Filename not specified.
You can add a photo, video or document to any post. Click on the appropriate icon at the bottom of the window. You can drag and drop a file to the center or click anywhere in the gray box to open the file browser to navigate to your file.
Error! Filename not specified.
You may also add a gif to the post. Use the search feature to find a particular one from the scrollable feed of available gifs.
Error! Filename not specified.
You can create a poll to get feedback from your peers. Create a prompt question, fill out your poll options, and set a poll closing date and time.
Error! Filename not specified.
Click the Show formatting button to show features such as Bold, Italics, Bullet points, and more.
Error! Filename not specified.
Click on the “Mention someone” button to mention your peers directly in your post.
Error! Filename not specified.
Click on the “Emoji” button to enhance your post. Use the search feature to find a particular emoji.
Error! Filename not specified.
If you don't finish your post, it will be saved as a draft for you to revisit later and complete. You can click Discard Draft to delete your post.
Error! Filename not specified.
To control who can see your post, click the Public drop-down and select the visibility level you want.
Error! Filename not specified.
Any posts you make are visible only to those with whom you are connected. A post you make does not go out to everyone at Rutgers. The more connections you have, the more visibility your posts will get.
If you want to get more specific, you can create a post directly within a group. Your post will have visibility to everyone else in that group.
" KB0017969 myCommunity myCommunity - How to export events "
Hover over the events icon to be presented with three or more options. Clicking Events takes you to the events page. Selecting either the Export .ics or the Export Outlook .ics option will export all events that are present on the calendar and include them in this .ics file.
Error! Filename not specified.
Clicking either export button opens a download prompt. Select the location on your computer you’d like to download the files. Once downloaded, you can open them in your calendar app or Microsoft Outlook.
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017973 myCommunity myCommunity - How to use and navigate Messages and the Inbox "
myCommunity allows you to reach out to your peers directly and view direct messages sent to you. You can access all your messages through the messages home page.
Error! Filename not specified.
Clicking on the “Messages” icon will pull up a drop-down preview of your messages. You can click on a message to view the entire thread of that message. You can also click View Inbox to view all messages.
Error! Filename not specified.
This is the home page for Messages. You can view all your messages here. Conversations are sorted by person along the left column. The conversation selected is displayed to the right.
Error! Filename not specified.
In any conversation, there is a menu with a few extra features you can use. You can:
•	change a conversation's status from read to unread.
•	archive a message to save them but remove them from the front page of messages.
•	delete all messages from a conversation.
Error! Filename not specified.
Any messages you have archived will be displayed in the archived section.
Error! Filename not specified.
Within the messages home page, you can filter your conversations using the search bar. This can search for names as well as the contents of a conversation.
Error! Filename not specified.
You can also update your notification settings to alert you when you get a message. You can modify the settings to alert you on the web and/or through email. You can also disable notifications altogether if you wish.
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017970 myCommunity myCommunity - How to use Events and Calendar "
Clicking on the events icon will bring you to the events home page. Hover over the icon to see additional options. 
Error! Filename not specified.
On the homepage, you will see events for the current day and onward.
Error! Filename not specified.
You can use the search filter to narrow down events to match your search term.
Error! Filename not specified.
Click on the list drop-down menu to view other view modes.
Error! Filename not specified.
You can navigate forward and backward using the Previous and Next Events buttons.
Error! Filename not specified.
As you navigate forwards and backward in time, you may want to reset back to today. Click on Today to reset the view. If you would like to view events on a particular day, click Upcoming next to Today and select which day you would like to view. As you navigate, the word Upcoming may change to something such as “May 21 - Now”.
Error! Filename not specified.
The other primary view is the calendar view. You can see when events are in relation to one another. You can also see ongoing events that span multiple days.
Error! Filename not specified.
Sometimes certain events may be contained in a series. These may be the same event that happens on a regular basis, or it may be a grouping of events by type, such as University Holidays. Click on the stacked rectangle icon next to an event name to view all events in the series.
Error! Filename not specified.
When you select an event, the event details page will show, allowing you to learn more about the event. The event image will be displayed at the top. Details such as date, time, venue, website, and more are available.
Error! Filename not specified.
From the event details page, you can click on the venue name to go to that venue’s event page. It will show you where it is located on the map and include the address. Any events happening at this location will show up towards the bottom in the Events at this venue section.
Error! Filename not specified.
 
" KB0017956 myCommunity myCommunity - How to view and interact with posts on the Activity Feed "
The activity feed is where posts from your connections appear. They are displayed in chronological order by default. 
Error! Filename not specified.
For any post you come across, you can react to it. Hover over the “Like” button to reveal the options available. Click on an option to react. You can change your reaction after making a selection by clicking on the “Like” button and choosing a different option. You can also remove your reaction from a post by clicking on the “Like” button again.
Error! Filename not specified.
You can comment on nearly all posts. Click on the “Comment” button to open the comment prompt. You can also add a picture, video, document, gif, or emoji. Click Post at the bottom to submit your comment. 
Error! Filename not specified.
If you have made a comment and wish to delete it, hover over the 3 dots “More Options” button in the top right of the comment and select Delete.
Error! Filename not specified.
If you come across a post that you believe breaks myCommunity guidelines, you can report it. This will tag that post for someone to review and see if it needs to be removed. Multiple reported posts by the same user may result in the account being suspended.
Error! Filename not specified.
Any post you have reacted to can be found by selecting the Reactions tab for the activity feed. This now filters to show only the posts you have reacted to.
Error! Filename not specified.
Search allows you to filter through all posts for the search term you have entered. Any posts that match the search term will be returned. 
Error! Filename not specified.
If your search term yields no results, a message will appear telling you, “Sorry, there was no activity found.”
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017959 myCommunity myCommunity - How to view and use groups "
Click the Groups icon in the top bar to navigate to all groups, my groups, or groups you have been invited to. You can also find groups via the panel along the right side of the home page.
Error! Filename not specified.
Error! Filename not specified.
On the Groups page, you will see all the groups that are available in myCommunity. You can filter groups by type or activity using the drop-down menu. 
Error! Filename not specified.
When viewing Groups, you can change view modes between Grid and List.
Error! Filename not specified.
Click on My Groups to view only the groups you are a part of. You can also view My Groups from your profile.
Error! Filename not specified.
Click on Invitations to see any groups you have been invited to.
Error! Filename not specified.
 
" KB0017977 myCommunity myCommunity - Mobile View "
myCommunity is available on your mobile browser. The layout is different, but the functionality is still all there. The “hamburger” menu icon contains most of the navigation. Many of the items that were in the top navbar in the web view can now be found in the main menu.
Error! Filename not specified.        Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017922 myCommunity myCommunity - Profile Details "
The profile page contains a variety of details about yourself. Some details, such as name and NetID, are pulled from your Rutgers profile. Your job title will automatically be pulled if you are an employee. Everything else about your profile is editable. You can edit this information by clicking Edit.
Error! Filename not specified.
Once in edit mode, there are several tabs to segment the information you can edit in your profile. Navigate between tabs to change your information. Press Save Changes at the bottom to save your updates. Fill out as much or as little information as you would like.
Error! Filename not specified.
For each field that is not your Name or NetID, you can change that field's visibility for others. Navigate to the field you would like to modify and click Change to the right of it. Select your desired option and click Close to save your changes.
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017911 myCommunity myCommunity - Profile Photo "
Your profile photo is used throughout myCommunity. It will appear next to your name on your profile, posts, messages, and group membership. Certain areas of myCommunity will display a green circle in the top right of your profile if you are online. This photo is not pulled from your NetID; you must upload one specifically to myCommunity. If you do not have a profile photo uploaded, a placeholder gray avatar photo will be used instead. 
Error! Filename not specified.
How to upload or change your photo
1.	Navigate to your profile.
2.	Hover over the profile picture and click the camera icon button to enter edit profile mode.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	You can upload a photo by dragging and dropping an image you have saved or clicking the select your file button to navigate and find your photo. 

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	You may also take a picture using your current device’s camera. If you have a photo currently in use, you may also delete this photo to go back to the placeholder avatar.

Error! Filename not specified.
Delete your current photo
You can delete your current profile photo by clicking the Delete tab and then Delete My Profile Photo. 
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017972 myCommunity myCommunity - Search feature "
The Search feature in myCommunity provides results for people, events, groups, activities, blog posts, or media. Click the Search icon to get started. 
Error! Filename not specified.
As you type, the results will start to filter. High-level details about the search results are available. You can learn more by clicking on a particular item. You can also click the View all for a more granular breakdown.
Error! Filename not specified.
On the View all results page, you can refine your search to look within certain categories on the left side. The results will be broken down into categories, and you can click on a single item to learn more.
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017635 myRutgers myGuest Authorized User | Student perspective "
The student must first configure any authorized user. Students can have up to 3 authorized users at any given time. An authorized Parent/Guest will receive a welcome email with instructions on creating a Community ID to access their myGuest Dashboard. 
Instructions for students to grant authorized users access:
1.	After logging into myRutgers, open Settings.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Under Security, select Authorized Access.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Select Add a User.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Review the FERPA agreement, check the box, and click Confirm.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Fill out the fields in yellow. Select which records your authorized user should have access to and click Submit.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Your authorized user has now been added. 3 active users are allowed at one time. You can do the following on the My Authorized Users page: 
o	Use the Edit icon to change certain info about that user and permissions.
o	Resend the Welcome Email if it was lost.
o	Change the user to inactive.

Error! Filename not specified.
You may refer to the myGuest Dashboard FAQ page for more information.
" KB0012505 NetID Early Employee NetID for faculty and staff "
Any faculty member, full-time staff member, or graduate assistant whose information has been entered into the payroll system ("on-boarded") and approved by University Human Resources can activate a NetID. If the faculty/staff member needs an active NetID before the entry is approved, the departmental payroll person can apply for an Early Employee NetID.
Please note the following before submitting a request:
•	Please do everything possible to complete the HR onboarding process before requesting Early Employee NetID assistance.
•	It is expected that you will work with the department and/or HR to resolve any outstanding issues within 30 days.
•	The Early Employee NetID process cannot accommodate new employees who do not yet have a Social Security Number (SSN).
•	Please verify the exact spelling of the new employee's first and last name, personal email address, SSN, and date of birth. Errors and inaccuracies may lead to data conflicts and consistency issues upon completion of onboarding.
Regarding onboarding:
•	It is recommended that new employees be onboarded as soon as possible and well in advance of their start date. Onboarding can be performed several months before the start date.
•	HR can only approve a request to hire after all the necessary data has been submitted. This includes, but is not limited to, first name, last name, date of birth, SSN, and an offer letter signed by both the unit and the new employee.
•	The I-9 may be completed several months in advance of an employee's start date and MUST be completed within 3 days of the employee's first day of work. HR will approve a hire request before the I-9 is completed.
How the service might be used
An Early Employee NetID can be temporarily used just as a NetID to access many of the electronic services available to you at Rutgers.
How to request this service
A departmental Human Resources representative or a hiring authority may request an Early Employee NetID for a user.
Additional assistance
For assistance, please contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0017588 NetID How to authorize Foundation users "
This article is intended for service owners who would like to configure a service to allow access to Rutgers Foundation staff.
•	Provisioning and Deprovisioning
•	Identifying Foundation users
•	LDAP Attributes
•	AD Attributes
•	SSO Integration
Provisioning and Deprovisioning
Foundation users are provisioned/de-provisioned in the IdM systems in two ways.
Via the Daily PeopleSoft feed.
Users are provisioned with the STAFF role. Subsequent updates and termination to the staff role is maintained within the HR system.
Via the IdM Guest System.
These type of Foundation users are generally provisioned with a GUEST role by an external HR system and entered manually by the Foundation's Guest admins in the IdM system. Subsequent updates and termination are handled by the designated Foundation Guest admins.
Identifying Foundation users
Services that consume Foundation authorization information from a relational database can identify Foundation users based on the following Department/organization and Org/Dept codes.
Foundation org codes
ORGANIZATION	ORG_CODE
ALUMNI ENGAGEMENT	10011
ALUMNI ENGAGEMENT - CMD	10012
ALUMNI ENGAGEMENT - NWK	10013
RUTGERS UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION	10010
LDAP Attributes
For services that consume Foundation authorization information from the IdM LDAP, the following attributes in LDAP can be used to identify Foundation users.
•	employeetype: This attribute can have any of the following values (‘STAFF’,’GUEST’)
•	rutgerseduorganizationcode: This attribute can have any of the following codes ('10010','10011', '10012', '10013')
•	rutgersedustaffdepartment: this attribute will have any of the following organization/Department names: 
o	ALUMNI ENGAGEMENT
o	ALUMNI ENGAGEMENT - CMD
o	ALUMNI ENGAGEMENT - NWK
o	RUTGERS UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION
An example of a search:
'(&(uid=xyz)(|(rutgersEduOrganizationCode=10010)(rutgersEduOrganizationCode=10011)(rutgersEduOrganizationCode=10012)(rutgersEduOrganizationCode=10013)))'
AD Attributes
For services that consume Foundation authorization information from the Enterprise Active Directory (RAD), the following attributes in AD can be used to identify Foundation users.
•	businesscategory: This attribute can have any of the following values (‘STAFF’,’GUEST’)
•	departmentnumber: This attribute can have any of the following codes ('10010','10011', '10012', '10013')
•	department: this attribute will have any of the following organization/Department names: 
o	ALUMNI ENGAGEMENT
o	ALUMNI ENGAGEMENT - CMD
o	ALUMNI ENGAGEMENT - NWK
o	RUTGERS UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION
•	memberof: This attribute will have the following group membership values (CN=ru-Rutgers-University-Foundation-Staff,OU=Rutgers-University-Foundation,OU=departments,OU=Groups,DC=rad,DC=rutgers,DC=edu) or (CN=ru-Rutgers-University-Foundation-Guest,OU=Rutgers-University-Foundation,OU=departments,OU=Groups,DC=rad,DC=rutgers,DC=edu)
An example of a search:
'(&(samaccountname=xyz)(|( departmentnumber=10010)( departmentnumber=10011)( departmentnumber=10012)( departmentnumber=10013)))
SSO Integration
For services that would like to consume Foundation authorization information via the SSO Integration, if your service is integrated with one of the IdM SSO systems (CAS or Shibboleth). IdM can pass to your service, along with the NetID of the users', a group membership for the foundation. If you would like to add this to your current integration, please reach out to the idm_operations@email.rutgers.edu for further assistance.
" KB0018510 NetID When do I no longer have an 'active student role' at Rutgers? "
Access to various services at the university is related to your “role” at the university. For students, the last semester that you are registered for classes determines when you no longer have an "active student role" which refers to your affiliation with Rutgers and how it is managed within information technology and other systems. 
When do you no longer have an active student role? 
Your status as a student is based on the last semester that you took classes.
Note that if you are still associated with the University in another capacity, such as faculty or staff, you maintain access to services in accordance with those roles. 
Fall semester
If you are not registered for Spring classes after the Fall semester, then by mid-January you will no longer have an active student role at Rutgers.
Winter session
If you are not registered for Spring classes after taking classes during the Winter session, then on January 31, you will no longer have an active student role at Rutgers. 
Spring semester
If you are not registered for Fall classes after the Spring semester, then by mid-August you will no longer have an active student role at Rutgers. 
Summer session
If you are not registered for Fall classes after taking classes during the Summer session, then on August 31, you will no longer have an active student role at Rutgers. 
Transitioning to Alumni
After graduating, former students are considered alumni and receive access to Rutgers' services in accordance with this new affiliation. This happens after the Registrar initiates a process showing that a student actually graduated. This may take a month or two after the actual graduation date. 
May graduates typically maintain their active student roles until they officially transition to being Alumni. 
December graduates may briefly not have an active student role before getting their Alumni status, since the student role is removed in mid-January, and graduation information may not necessarily be entered by then.  
Alumni will never lose this affiliation with Rutgers.
Withdrawing from the University
If you stop taking classes at the University without officially graduating, you will not be considered an Alumni. Depending on your withdrawal date, you may lose your active student role shortly after withdrawing, or in accordance with the timeline noted above. Afterward, you will have no active affiliation with Rutgers unless you re-enroll as a student or are eligible for another, such as being a faculty or staff member. 
" KB0012847 NetID FAQ How can I change or reset my NetID password? "
If you would like to change or reset your NetID password, please choose one of the following options.
If you remember your current NetID password
1.	Navigate to the NetID Management page and click on Manage NetID Password. 
2.	After logging in, you will be prompted to verify your identity. If you are not set up for two-factor authentication, you will automatically proceed to the next step.
3.	After verification, you'll be able to change your NetID password, which must follow the Password Rules that are listed. It may take up to 2 minutes for your new password to take effect.
If you do NOT remember your current NetID password
Refer to the instructions on how to reset my forgotten password.
Additional troubleshooting
If you cannot change your password on your own, contact the OIT Help Desk.
Please remember to update your secret questions and answers when you change or reset your password.
Be aware that after changing your password, you will need to make sure it is updated in any locations where it may be saved. This may include:
•	Your web browser. (You can learn how to view and edit your passwords for Chrome, Safari, Firefox, and Edge on their respective help pages.)
•	Your wireless settings. (You can learn how to manage wireless networks for Chromebooks, macOS, and Windows on their respective help pages.)
•	Your password manager app. (Look in your specific password manager app for documentation on updating a saved password.)
•	Locally installed applications that use your NetID and password login, such as Microsoft Office, Webex, and Zoom.
o	If you are not prompted to log in with your new password and are unable to access the application, please log out and log back in. For most applications, this is done by selecting your profile picture or the settings icon and choosing Sign Out. From any Microsoft Office application, you can select File > Account > Sign Out. After signing out, you will see the option to Sign In in the same locations.
•	If you need assistance with this, contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0012850 NetID FAQ How do I find my NetID? "
To find what your NetID is, please follow the steps below:
1.	Navigate to the NetID Management page.
2.	Click NetID Lookup found on the left side of the page.
3.	Fill out the form and follow the formats listed on the page.
4.	Click Lookup Your NetID.
Please note that if you are a new employee or incoming student, a NetID will be assigned to you upon completion of your admission or HR onboarding process.
If you have any questions or concerns, contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0012849 NetID FAQ How do I reset my NetID password if I forgot my password? "
If you need to reset your password and do not know your current password, please continue with the steps below.
1.	Navigate to the Forgotten Password page.
2.	Enter your information in the format given in the example. Common errors to pay attention to are listed below: 
o	First Name: ensure the first letter is capitalized
o	Last Name: ensure the first letter is capitalized
o	Identifier: ensure one of the three identifier options is selected
o	Identifier: if using your Social Security Number (SSN) ensure you enter the full 9-digit number
o	Date of Birth: must be in the format of mm/dd/yyyy

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Choose one of the 3 verification methods, complete the reCAPTCHA, and click Continue. 
o	Two Factor Authentication (Duo) - If selected, you will be redirected to the Duo authentication screen. If you choose this option and have not previously set up Two Factor Authentication, you will be instructed to use your Security Questions or an Activation Key.
o	Security Questions - If selected, you will be prompted to answer the questions you initially set up when activating your NetID. If the answers are entered incorrectly three times, you will be unable to use security questions for 24 hours. In this case, or if your Security Questions are not set up, you may call the Help Desk at 833-OIT-HELP for further assistance.
o	Activation Key - If you are not set up for Two-Factor Authentication and are locked out of your Security Questions, you may call the Help Desk at 833-OIT-HELP for further assistance; they can provide you with an Activation Key.
4.	You will then be prompted to create your new password, which must follow the listed Password Rules. Accept the Terms of Use and click Reset Password.

     Error! Filename not specified.
It may take up to 2 minutes for your new password to take effect on most services, and up to 30 minutes for your Rutgers Connect account. 
Please remember to update your secret questions and answers when you change or reset your password.
If you need assistance resetting your password, please contact the OIT Help Desk.
Be aware that after changing your password, you will need to make sure it is updated in any locations where it may be saved. This may include:
•	Your web browser. (You can learn how to view and edit your passwords for Chrome, Safari, Firefox, and Edge on their respective help pages.)
•	Your wireless settings. (You can learn how to manage wireless networks for Chromebooks, macOS, and Windows on their respective help pages.)
•	Your password manager app. (Look in your specific password manager app for documentation on updating a saved password.)
•	Locally installed applications that use your NetID and password login, for example, Microsoft Office, Webex, and Zoom.
o	If you are not prompted to log in with your new password and are unable to access the application, please log out and log back in. For most applications, this is done by selecting your profile picture or the settings icon and choosing Sign Out. From any Microsoft Office application, you can select File > Account > Sign Out. After signing out, you will see the option to Sign In in the same locations.
•	If you need assistance with this, please contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0012845 NetID FAQ How to activate your NetID? "
1.	Visit the NetID Management Page
2.	Select NetID Activation from the links on the left.
3.	Enter all the required information and select Continue.
4.	If successful, the next page will ask you to set a password.
5.	Once you have successfully set your password, you will be directed to the Service Activation page.
6.	You will then be directed to set up your email services.
If you are a new incoming Student and are having issues with activating your NetID, please double-check that you have completed the following, as it is a prerequisite to getting a NetID:
•	You have been offered admission by the University.
•	Ensure that on the NetID Activation page, under the Identifier, you are using the RUID or A number option, as Rutgers may not yet have your SSN on file to use as an identifier.
If you are a new Faculty/Staff member and are having issues with activating your NetID, please double-check the following, as these are prerequisites to getting a NetID:
•	Completed the HR Onboarding Process.
•	Had HR process paperwork more than 3 business days before attempting to activate NetID.
If you are a new Guest and are having issues with activating your NetID, ensure all steps in the process below have been completed:
•	Filled out the Guest Request Form
•	Had a University Faculty or Staff sponsor the Guest Request and had them approve it.
•	Received an email with an activation link. If you no longer have access to the activation link email, or it has expired, you must manually activate your NetID. 
•	If you do not provide a real SSN when filling out the form, you will be assigned a pseudo-SSN, which will be provided to your Sponsor, and is the person you may obtain it from. 
If you have confirmed the steps above and are still experiencing issues activating your NetID, please contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0012846 NetID FAQ My NetID password expired. What can I do? "
You may have been notified by Rutgers that your NetID password has expired. Password expirations are put in place to keep your Rutgers services secure. To update your password, please follow the directions on how to change or reset your NetID password. 
" KB0012852 NetID FAQ What do I need to do after I change my password? "
Please remember to update your secret questions and answers when you change or reset your password.
Be aware that after changing your password, you will need to make sure it is updated in any locations where it may be saved. This may include:
•	Your web browser. (You can learn how to view and edit your passwords for Chrome, Safari, Firefox, and Edge on their respective help pages.)
•	Your wireless settings. (You can learn how to manage wireless networks for Chromebooks, macOS, and Windows on their respective help pages.)
•	Your password manager app. (Look in your specific password manager app for documentation on updating a saved password.)
•	Locally installed applications that use your NetID and password login, for example, Microsoft Office, Webex, and Zoom.
o	If you are not prompted to log in with your new password and are unable to access the application, please log out and log back in. For most applications, this is done by selecting your profile picture or the settings icon and choosing Sign Out. From any Microsoft Office application, you can select File > Account > Sign Out. After signing out, you will see the option to Sign In in the same locations.
•	If you need assistance with this, contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0015765 NetID FAQ Why am I required to change my NetID password every year? "
As a result of an assessment by the Information Security Office, Rutgers will continue to require annual password changes. 
" KB0011056 Network and Connectivity Management Cisco Prime "
Cisco Prime is a network administration tool. Prime uses your NetID and password to login, and will prompt your mobile device with a DUO push (you need to have a mobile device enabled with DUO to access Prime). Access is available only through Rutgers IP space (via VPN or RUNet).
1.	Navigate to the login page.
2.	If you receive a "Your connection is not private" message, select Advanced and then Proceed to cpi01-hill-nbp.td.rutgers.edu to be directed to the site.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	You’ll reach the login page for Cisco Prime Infrastructure, and log in there with your NetID and Password.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	When you press Login, you should get a push notification on your mobile device in DUO from EI Linux. After approving the request, you should be brought to the Cisco Prime homepage. If you are unable to log in, please contact your management team, as RAD groups are responsible for authorizing access.
Searching for Clients
1.	From the homepage of Cisco Prime, you should see a navigation bar at the top of the page. In the top right corner, there is a search bar labeled Application Search

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	There, you can search by NetID or MAC address. Pressing enter within the search will bring you to two tabs: Alarms or (Change Audit) and Clients. You will need to select Clients because Alarms or (Change Audit) will be selected by default. You can also select the client from the drop-down in Application Search, provided you pause for a moment or so for the indexed results to appear.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Displayed on the page will then be information about the user and or the device. You’ll then be able to see their NetID, IP Address, MAC Address, Hostname (if they’re currently connected), Port Description (if they’re currently connected), Vlan, Manufacturer, and Profile Name (what profile they’re authenticated with)

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Clicking on the username will take you to detailed information regarding the client and authentication history (as was available in NAP). 
User Authentications
When on the monitoring page for a client (after clicking the link on the above page), you can see data regarding their current and historical sessions. This is the most helpful area when determining why a user cannot connect to the network.
Error! Filename not specified.
General information, such as username, MAC, and IP Address is available in the left-hand column. In the center column you can see their current connection status (associated, disassociated, or excluded) under 802.11 State. If the 802.11 state is excluded the device is briefly blocked from reconnecting (for 1 minute) due to too many connection errors. The network or SSID they are connected to is available under SSID. Pressing Show More will provide additional information, including the AP to which the user is connected.
Lower on the page is the user’s association history by AP over a given interval, along with statistics on the user’s connection, which can be used to diagnose connection or speed issues.
Clicking on the ISE tab will show you their authentication history (similar to the top part of NAP). You can use this to search through the data over a set interval. Due to the amount of data ISE pulls in, these logs are purged with some frequency, but should be available if you’re actively troubleshooting with a user. If you run a search but don’t see results, you may have to reload or log out and back into Prime.
Error! Filename not specified.
Error! Filename not specified.
This information provides specific failure reasons in greater detail than previously available in NAP, helping to diagnose connection issues. In this example, the client is using an improper protocol to connect to RUHealthSciences and needs to be reconfigured.
" KB0012678 Network and Connectivity Management Setting up personal printers "
Networked printers are not supported on RUatHome, RUIOT or RUWireless. The only supported method to use a personal printer is via a USB cable. Wireless printing is supported by the Computer Lab printing stations.
For more information about printing to the Computer Labs, visit the printing on the RUWireless network article.
For the location and hours of the Computer Labs, visit the Rutgers Computer Labs website.
" KB0015335 Network and Connectivity Management Wi-Fi troubleshooting "
If you are experiencing wireless connection or reception problems, try one or all of these fixes:
1.	Restart your device. Simply turn your Wi-Fi off and then on and/or restart your computer or device to see if it solves the problem.
2.	Make sure you are connecting to the right network. You should connect to the RUWireless Secure network if you're affiliated with Rutgers. If you are a guest, you should be connected to the RUWireless network. 
3.	If you are using an Apple device, it may automatically connect to an inappropriate wireless network, resulting in slower performance. To fix this issue, erase ALL (both Rutgers and personal) existing wireless network configurations from your device and start fresh with just the RUWireless Secure network. To do so on an iOS device, open Settings on your device then select General > Reset > Reset Network Settings, then follow these instructions to configure your iOS device to connect to RUWireless Secure.
4.	Revert a recent operating system update. If you recently updated your computer or device's operating system (OS) and are experiencing connectivity or speed issues, you may want to consider reverting to the previous OS and wait until an updated version of the new OS is released.
Other things to try
1.	Confirm that you have followed the correct steps to configure RUWireless Secure access for your device.
2.	Check to make sure that Wi-Fi/wireless is turned on for your laptop or device and that you are connected to RUWireless Secure. If not, you are probably experiencing slow cell service and should contact your service provider (e.g., Verizon, AT&T, etc.) if the issue persists.
3.	Make sure that you are logging in with a current NetID and password. An old password may be saved on your device if you changed it recently.
4.	Make sure you are in an official Rutgers building that would have RUWireless Secure provided. 
5.	Move your computer/device a few feet in any direction. Move away from large metal or masonry obstructions (shelves, walls, etc.).
6.	Confirm that your computer or device's clock is displaying the correct time and time zone; if not, update them to the correct time and time zone.
7.	Test your NetID and password to see if it is working properly by logging into MyRutgers. If not, try following the steps to reset your NetID password. 
Advanced Troubleshooting
If you feel comfortable with more advanced technical troubleshooting, you may wish to try the following:
1.	Update your WLAN (wireless card) drivers.
2.	If using Microsoft Windows, flush the DNS cache. To do so, select Start > Run, type cmd. Then in the command prompt type ipconfig/flushdns. When complete, try reconnecting to RUWireless Secure.
3.	If you have firewall, antivirus, or P2P (peer to peer) software enabled or are using non-Windows wireless connection applications, try to disable this/these applications and try connecting again. If you can connect, one of those software applications is likely causing the issue. If your antivirus program appears to be the root of the issue, consider uninstalling it and switching to the available Rutgers licensed anti-virus software. If not, be sure to immediately re-enable any antivirus software you temporarily disabled.
Still having issues?
If none of the above steps resolve the issue, or you need assistance with any of them, contact the OIT Help Desk. 
" KB0014790 NoID Accounts How do I request a NoID account? "
NOID, NO IDentity accounts have a username and password just to access restricted mail services. Basically, a NOID user exists solely to access and use some or all of our MailRelay (MR) Services.
 Some common reasons for a NOID account
•	Web applications, housed on or off RU IP space
•	Your service is hosted on a non-static IP
•	For SMTP-auth, username and password for mail sending (for some dumb printers/scanners/fax machines, etc)
•	Your service needs mail reading services
•	Your service needs mail to be independent of the server that hosts it
For each and every NOID account request, answer all the questions:
•	The requester's contact info: 
o	Name
o	Email address
o	Phone number
o	Department (no acronyms)
•	Specify which type of NoID account you need. There are five types of NoID accounts, depending on whether you want POP3 or IMAP, and if you need sending/SMTP access:
o	noids = Send/Smtp only account (most common choice)
o	noidi = Imap only account
o	noidis = both Imap and Send/Smtp account
o	noidp = Pop3 only account
o	noidps = both Pop3 and Send/Smtp account
•	Provide a brief description of the departmental use (info to help us pick your NOID username [aka $NOID_USER])
•	Provide a brief description of the service that requires the account (e.g., "ticketing system for local problem tracking").
NOTE: Does that service process PHI (Protected Health Information) or University Restricted data, including NPPI (Non-Public Personal Information)? See the Data Classification Guide if you are unsure whether the mail data is in either category. We need a clear statement for each data type. For example, "No, my service handles neither PHI nor NPPI data"
or "My service handles NPPI data, but not PHI data."
•	Does your entity involve processing PHI (yes/no)?
•	Will your email contain any PHI or University Restricted data info (yes/no)? 
o	If yes, what is the nature of the PHI/University Restricted Data in the email?
•	If there are any existing email addresses associated with the
service, please note them. (example: help@rutgers.edu)
•	If needed, what IP address will be used to access the Inbox for the NoID account?
(This is only required for IMAP or POP type NOID requests)
•	If needed, which hostname (s) will access the Inbox in question?
(This is only required for IMAP or POP type NOID requests, aka your initial Access Control List)
•	If you're sending an email via the NoID account, what is the "FROM" address you will be using?
"FROM" REMINDER: Always use a FROM address that is a real working address that can receive mail. We are concerned about you getting error/bounce messages and other internal negative mail tagging. Your FROM address needs to be valid $FROM@$SOMETHING.rutgers.edu or $FROM@rutgers.edu for mail to work correctly, the CAT tool can confirm if the FROM address is valid. If you need help with any of this, contact your local IT Delegated Admin or the OIT Help Desk.

Always ensure your FROM is valid when using our MailRelayServices (MRS) for any current or future systems. We will begin the NOID approval review and creation process after we receive all the information requested above.
Once a NoID account has been approved, you will receive a link to a secure website containing the following information, which can be used to configure your device:
•	Account name: e.g., “deptacct”
•	Account password: e.g., “CAPS123lower”
" KB0017684 PAM Benefits of Privileged Access Management (PAM) "
Privilege Access Management (PAM) safeguards access to critical systems and data, including student information systems (SIS), research data repositories, administrative records, and financial systems. PAM solution offers a comprehensive suite of tools to prevent unauthorized access and mitigate risks associated with privileged accounts.
•	Protecting Sensitive Data: Implementing a Privileged Access Management (PAM) solution enables the management of access to the Rutgers student information system, which houses sensitive information, including grades, financial aid details, and personal identifiers. This approach not only upholds data integrity but also ensures compliance with various regulatory standards, such as FERPA, HIPAA, PCI-DSS, GLBA, and GDPR, safeguarding against unauthorized access and data breaches.
•	Securing Research Data: Rutgers University's cutting-edge research often involves confidential and proprietary information. Implementing Privileged Access Management (PAM) can protect research data from potential intellectual property theft, ensuring that only authorized researchers and staff can access specific data sets.
•	Enhancing IT Infrastructure Security: Rutgers University’s complex IT infrastructures can leverage Privileged Access Management (PAM) solutions to manage and monitor privileged access across various systems and platforms, from legacy systems to cloud-based services. This can significantly reduce the attack surface and thwart potential cyber threats.
" KB0017685 PAM Identifying Accounts for Privileged Access Management (PAM) Implementation "
To leverage PAM solutions effectively, it's crucial to identify and prioritize accounts that require protection. These typically include:
•	Accounts with access to student and faculty personal information.
•	Accounts authorized to access regulated data to ensure compliance with relevant regulations, including FERPA, HIPAA, PCI-DSS, GLBA, and GDPR.
•	Administrative accounts with high-level access to financial and operational systems.
•	Research accounts holding sensitive data about ongoing projects.
•	Vendor and third-party accounts with access to institutional IT systems.
" KB0017686 PAM The strategic implementation of Privileged Access Management (PAM) "
OIT has a service contract with CyberArk as the primary tool for our PAM implementation. 
OIT embarked on a multi-year project to improve the security of privileged accounts. The following are some of the important steps we will be taking to achieve this goal: 
•	Assessment, Discovery and Planning: Conduct a comprehensive review of the current security posture and privileged account usage. Identify systems and data critical to the institution's mission that require enhanced protection.
•	Stakeholder Engagement: Engage with stakeholders across the institution, including faculty, IT staff, and administration, to align on the importance of Privileged Access Management (PAM) and gather input on specific needs and concerns.
•	Tailored Implementation: Develop an implementation plan considering the institution's unique structure and needs. This plan may involve phased rollouts, starting with the most sensitive systems.
•	Training and Awareness: Implement training programs to educate staff and students about the importance of privileged access security and ensure that users understand their roles in maintaining the security of the systems they access.
•	Continuous Review and Adaptation: Establish ongoing monitoring and review processes to ensure the Privileged Access Management (PAM) solution remains effective against evolving threats. Regularly update policies and practices to reflect changes in the institutional environment and threat landscape.
In the initial phase of this endeavor, which began in 2024, the focus was on applying PAM controls to specific Rutgers Enterprise Active Directory (RAD)- enabled services within OIT, with the goal of expanding it to other units and endpoints (UNIX, Database, Cloud, Network, DevOps, etc.).
By focusing on the strategic implementation of Privileged Access Management (PAM) solutions, Rutgers University can significantly enhance the security of its privileged accounts, protecting against unauthorized access and potential cyber threats. We look forward to working together to strengthen our institution's cybersecurity posture.
" KB0012905 PaperCut printing FAQs Do pages get counted when I send print jobs or when they are released?
Pages are counted when they are released to a printer from a print release station or the printer's touchscreen console.
KB0018157 PaperCut printing FAQs I can no longer print via Mobility Print from my Mac after changing my NetID password "
When adding a Mobility Print printer to a Mac OS computer, your NetID and password will be stored securely on the computer in a keychain. This is done so you won't be prompted for your credentials every time you print to a Mobility Print printer. When you update the password for your NetID, you will also have to update the stored password for each Mobility Print printer installed on your Mac OS computer to reflect the NetID password change.
How to update the locally stored password for a Mobility Print printer
1.	Press the Command and Space Bar on your keyboard to open Spotlight.
2.	Start typing Keychain Access, and the icon for this application should appear. 
3.	Click the icon, and you should be prompted for the local password for your account on this computer.
4.	Under System Keychains in the left menu, choose System. 
5.	You should see numerous entries in the main windows, so narrow down what is shown by typing the name of the Mobility Print printer in the search bar. For example, search for nb_bw.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Double-click the nb_bw entry, and then check the Show password checkbox. 
7.	A separate popup window should appear to enter your local account password for your Mac OS computer. Enter this password and click Allow to continue.

Error! Filename not specified.
8.	The previous password for your NetID should be listed in plain text. Clear out this previous password, replace it with the current NetID password, and click Save Changes. 

Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Repeat this process for every Mobility Print printer listed in the Keychain Access application.
10.	Once all passwords have been updated, you can then close the window and the Keychain Access application.
11.	Send a print job to one of the printers you updated, and verify that the print job is available for release on a multi-function printer or print release station.
" KB0012909 PaperCut printing FAQs "Once I have exhausted my printing limit, will I still be able to print?" "
In most cases, it is possible. If you have an RU Express or Raider Dollars account, charges for further printouts will be deducted from any funds you have placed on these alternative accounts. 
" KB0012906 PaperCut printing FAQs What if my print outs are bad due to printer jams or other printer issues? "
In case of printer jams or any other printer software glitches, reach out to a lab consultant for further assistance. If there is a problem, the lab consultants will be able to re-release your print job, and it will not be deducted from your printing balance.
" KB0012904 PaperCut printing FAQs What will count towards my printing limit? "
Any prints or copies that are released to the printer will be counted. This includes class notes and papers. When printing double-sided pages, you will be charged per sheet.
" KB0012907 PaperCut printing FAQs Will my professor be able to request a larger printing limit for me? "
The printing limit and charges are not subject to change. The printing limit was chosen based on a survey taken by Rutgers University students and faculty. 
" KB0012910 PaperCut printing FAQs Will my unused balance of printing be refunded or carried over to the next printing period? "
No, there will be no refunds or carrying over of the unused printing balance from one printing period to the next. At the start of the next printing period, all balances are reset to $30 of printing available at no charge.
" KB0012908 PaperCut printing FAQs Will the faculty be participating in the printing conservation initiative? "
The printing conservation program applies to all faculty, staff, guests, and students.
" KB0016777 Papercut Support Changes to Print Spooler Authentication Level on PaperCut Print Servers "
The PaperCut Support team configured all PaperCut print servers to use a higher level of authentication when communicating with client computers. This change will enhance the security level of the underlying Windows print server configuration that the enterprise PaperCut system relies on, and will require that all Windows and macOS client computers that print via PaperCut have received recent security updates.
Detailed Overview
Microsoft released a knowledge base article in 2020 announcing details on new authentication settings and levels for the Print Spooler service. In this document, Microsoft announced that the increased security level offered by these changes would be put in place in phases:
•	January 12, 2021: Initial Deployment Phase: The added security levels would be in place and available after installing the January 2021 Microsoft security updates, but would be set to be disabled by default.
•	September 14, 2021: Enforcement Phase: The added security levels would be set to enabled by default after installing the September 2021 Microsoft security updates.
After testing the increased security level on various versions of Windows and macOS computers prior to September 2021, the PaperCut Support team found that macOS computers could no longer add or print to the shared printers on the PaperCut print servers. Therefore, this increased security level was manually disabled to make sure that printing continued to work for macOS clients.
The PaperCut Support group continued to monitor updates from Apple regarding the resolution of this issue for the macOS operating system. This issue has now been resolved on all macOS versions for which Apple still actively issues security updates. Therefore, the PaperCut Support group has enabled the increased security level for the Print Spooler service on the PaperCut print servers.
Technical Details for Client Operating Systems
This change will require that all Windows and macOS client computers have received recent security updates. It's recommended that each client system be upgraded with the most recent security update for its respective platform. Some general information on the support version of Windows and macOS are listed below.
Release date	Product	Article	Download
Jan 12, 2021	Windows RT 8.1	5005613	Monthly Rollup
Jan 12, 2021	Windows 8.1 for x64-based systems	5005613	Monthly Rollup
Jan 12, 2021	Windows 8.1 for x64-based systems	5005627	Security Only
Jan 12, 2021	Windows 7 for x64-based Systems Service Pack 1	5005633	Monthly Rollup
Jan 12, 2021	Windows 7 for x64-based Systems Service Pack 1	5005615	Security Only
Jan 12, 2021	Windows 10 Version 1607 for x64-based Systems	5005573	Security Update
Jan 12, 2021	Windows 10 for x64-based Systems	5005569	Security Update
Jan 12, 2021	Windows 10 Version 2004 for x64-based Systems	5005565	Security Update
Jan 12, 2021	Windows 10 Version 1909 for x64-based Systems	5005566	Security Update
Jan 12, 2021	Windows 10 Version 1809 for x64-based Systems	5005568	Security Update
Jan 12, 2021	Windows 10 Version 1803 for x64-based Systems	4598245	Security Update
Jan 12, 2021	Windows 10 Version 20H2 for x64-based Systems	5005565	Security Update
 
Product	Latest version	General Technical Notes
macOS Sonoma	14.0	HT213893
macOS Ventura	13.6	HT213327
macOS Monterey	12.7	HT212586
macOS Big Sur	11.7.10	HT211896
macOS Catalina	10.15.7	HT213343
Supporting Information
Microsoft CVE-2021-1678 - Windows Print Spooler Spoofing Vulnerability
Find out which macOS your Mac is using
What version of Windows am I running?
" KB0012757 Personal Antivirus Software FAQ Does Rutgers offer free antivirus software for personal equipment? "
Rutgers recommends Avira (for macOS) and Windows Defender for use on personal equipment not owned by Rutgers.
For steps on how to install either software, please reference the guide to installing antivirus software on personal devices
" KB0012759 Personal Antivirus Software FAQ Does the Office of Information Technology (OIT) recommend any free antivirus software? "
For Windows computers, OIT recommends Windows Defender Antivirus (a built-in anti-virus and malware suite provided by Microsoft).
For Mac computers, OIT recommends Avira.
If your machine is infected, you may be unable to access RUWireless or ResNet from your device. We recommend using Malwarebytes to remove the malicious software. If you are unable to remove the malicious software, you may contact the OIT Help Desk for further assistance.
" KB0012762 Personal Antivirus Software FAQ What happened to Immunet? "
Immunet Antivirus, which has been Rutgers' recommended antivirus solution for personal devices, will be discontinuing its services on January 1, 2024. After this date, the software will no longer be connected to Immunet Cloud servers, leaving your device vulnerable to potential security threats. As such, it is recommended that you switch to Windows Defender before the end of this year. 
Current Recommendations
Personal Devices
For personal devices, you have the option to continue using Immunet until the end of the year, at which time it is recommended to use Windows Defender. Alternatively, you may uninstall it now and start using Windows Defender immediately. For more information about Windows Defender and its use, visit Microsoft's support article. 
University-Owned Equipment
If you are using a university-owned device, please consult with your Department's IT support for guidance on antivirus solutions. 
Immunet's End-of-Life Announcement
Immunet has announced that it is discontinuing its services due to shifts in the consumer product landscape. The company will focus its efforts on Talos threat intelligence, which is more aligned with Cisco's security defense goals.
Uninstalling Immunet
You can uninstall Immunet through the Windows Control Panel. Upon removal, Windows Defender should automatically become active. 
Should you have any further questions or concerns, contact the OIT Help Desk. 
" KB0012758 Personal Antivirus Software FAQ Where can I get free antivirus software? "
Visit the Software Portal to download an antivirus package suitable for your computing environment.
" KB0012761 Personal Antivirus Software FAQ Who can I contact for Antivirus support? "
In general, antivirus_support@rutgers.edu will be able to answer your questions.
•	For trouble with Cisco Secure Endpoint (AMP), contact antivirus_support@rutgers.edu or your Department’s IT staff.
•	For generic PC issues, contact the OIT Help Desk
" KB0016737 Printer Maintenance and Support How to hide excess USB cable when installing a card rader on a Ricoh MFP "
Hiding the excess cable when installing a USB card reader on a Ricoh Multi-Function Printer (MFP) will help to deter removal and theft of the USB card reader, as well as providing a neater look. These instructions should work for any Ricoh MFP manufactured after 2022, the model used in this guide is the Ricoh IM C6000.
1.	Lift the scanner lid and remove the two screws that hold the front cover in place. 

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Remove the front bezel by grabbing the right side edge, and pulling the bezel up and away until it starts to come free.




3.	Flip the touchscreen up as far as it goes and remove the cover that is over where the touchscreen is attached to the MFP. 


4.	Once the touchscreen base cover is removed, there is a channel along the right side. The excess cable, starting from where the USB cable connects to the touchscreen, can be tucked into this channel.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	The remainder of the cable can be tucked into the space under the scanner bed. Make sure to run the cable through the small channel on the right side, so that the front cover can be reinstalled without pressing down on and pinching the cable.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Reinstall the touchscreen base cover, making sure not to catch the USB cable. The cover should snap into place. 


7.	To replace the front cover, find the tab on the left size and line it up with the notch on the left size of the MFP.

Error! Filename not specified.

Error! Filename not specified.
8.	Line the tab on the front cover with the notch on the left size, and start to lightly push the cover into place. Start from the left and work your way to the right side until the front cover is completely snapped into place. 
o	Make sure to not catch any of the excess USB cable when snapping the right end of the cover into place.


9.	Reinstall the two screws to secure the front cover.
" KB0012495 Printers/Fax/Other Devices Disabling the Windows Print Spooler "
To disable the Windows Print Spooler on an individual machine:
1.	Select Start and search for Services.
2.	Right-click on Services and click Run as Administrator.
3.	Locate the Print Spooler service.
4.	Double click it to open its properties.
5.	Change the Startup Type from Automatic to Disabled and click Apply.
Error! Filename not specified.
If this method of disabling the print spooler fails, you may attempt alternative strategies.
If you have questions, please contact the Office of Information Technology Help Desk.
" KB0014789 Printers/Fax/Other Devices What is the Mail Relay Service? "
Technologies such as printers, routers, cloud vendors, and HVAC systems sometimes need to send email, but they generally cannot use Rutgers Connect or ScarletMail. In order to support these products, the Office of Information Technology (OIT) offers a portfolio of mail relay services. 
Access to these services comes via application. 
Commonly Accepted Usages 	Commonly Excluded Usages 
•	Networked printers (e.g. toner/paper notification email)
•	Switches/routers (e.g. operational email) 
•	Automated HVAC systems 
•	Emergency generators (e.g. fuel status email) 
•	Software performing “basic authentication” (i.e. authentication is not performed via OAuth or a similar modern protocol). This software is incompatible with Rutgers cloud email providers. 
•	Products that are unable to use a password when sending email. 	•	Individual email accounts/aliases 
•	Usage from individual computers that can be performed using Outlook, webmail, etc. 
•	Products not able to perform email encryption (e.g. SSL or TLS) 
•	Service to shared infrastructure; for example, to an outside vendor that cannot ensure exclusive Rutgers resources. 
•	Usage by non-Rutgers affiliates 
Software/applications running on dedicated servers, virtual appliances, and vendor-provided IT services will be considered on a case-by-case basis with consideration to the applicable policies and guidelines. The platform should be formally procured by Rutgers and use appropriate measures that ensure Rutgers IT resources are only provided for Rutgers related usage. To confirm compatibility, you are encouraged to engage OIT promptly whenever email integrations are required. 
Available Services
OIT currently offers four classes of mail relay service. The request process will guide you to a suggested offering. If you have an explicit service requirement, please note that during the request process. 
•	SMTP AUTH mail sending service: A special NetID and password, allocated to your service and not any one person, is created for your request. Please note that this service requires the security of TLS or SSL encryption. Email may be sent as any authorized Rutgers-affiliated email address. 
•	IMAP or POP3 mail receiving service: A special NetID and password, allocated to your service and not any one person, is created for your request. A mailbox is created for that special NetID, which will receive email for retrieval (via IMAP or POP3) under the security of TLS encryption. Your Rutgers Connect domain administrator may create an alias, in Rutgers Connect, that will “hide” the special NetID for marketing purposes. (If the special NetID will only be used by automated processes, a marketing alias is not required.)
•	SMTP AUTH with IMAP or SMTP AUTH with POP3: If there is a requirement to both send and receive email, this offering is a combination of offerings #1 and #2.
•	IP-based mail sending service: The IP address of your University-affiliated device will be permitted to send email, using SMTP, as any authorized Rutgers-affiliated email address. This is the only offering available for devices that cannot ensure the security of a Rutgers NetID and password — for example, devices that cannot support encryption. This offering is generally restricted to RUNet-connected devices.
Request Process
Mail relay privileges can be requested by the appropriate Administrative or Technical Contact for the device by logging into the request webtool: Request Mail Relay Access
Upon submitting a completed online application, the request will be assessed, and its status communicated via email. All accepted and rejected submissions will be acknowledged via email to the submitter. Rejected submissions may also include details on reasons for the rejection and corrective actions which must be taken prior to resubmission. 
Exclusions and Audits
Exemption from NetID authentication does not constitute exemption from the relevant University policies, guidelines, and technical standards. If a device is found in violation, mail relay permission may be denied and/or revoked. Generally, we will first attempt to remedy this situation with the contacts listed on the application. 
OIT reserves the right to conduct audits of devices with mail relay permission. Timely responses to OIT audits are mandatory for continued permission to utilize Rutgers services. 
If a device is excluded, OIT must receive verification that the conditions that led to the device’s exclusion have been corrected and verified prior to reinstatement. 
For more information on the standards of data protection required of authorized devices, please visit Information Security Cybersecurity Compliance Program. 
" KB0012542 Printing (with PaperCut) How do I manage my print jobs? "
You can manage your print jobs by using the PaperCut tool. To use PaperCut to manage print jobs, visit the PaperCut website and enter your NetID and password. Note that if you would like to access this while off campus, you will need to log in to the VPN first.
Once you’re signed in, you will see the following options listed on the left-hand side:
•	Summary: Shows current balances, including both the OIT-provided print balance and your RU Express balance, as well as the number of print jobs and pages printed. Note that the RU Express balance will not be used for printing until the OIT-provided balance has been exhausted.
•	Rates: Shows the rates per sheet of each print queue.
•	Transaction History: Shows a list of previous transactions for this account.
•	Recent Print Jobs: Shows recent print jobs
•	Web Print: Enables printing for laptops, wireless devices, and unauthenticated users without the need to install a driver. Selected locations only.
 
Error! Filename not specified.
 
 
" KB0012543 Printing (with PaperCut) How do I print from a laptop or mobile device? "
Mobility Print is a feature that allows you to print from your personal devices, including computers, tablets, and phones connected to the RUWireless Secure network.
You must be connected to the Rutgers network or VPN to access the links and complete the setup.
For detailed instructions, follow the steps listed below for the platform you are using:
•	Windows
•	macOS
•	Android
•	iOS
The current Mobility Print configuration currently supports only centrally managed Chromebooks. Since patron-owned devices are not centrally managed, Chromebooks will no longer be supported as a client for Mobility Print in the OIT computer labs. OIT apologizes for any inconvenience and will work with PaperCut on a road map for print support for patron-owned Chromebooks.
 
Windows
1.	 Go to the installation page
o	For New Brunswick and Camden users, navigate here
o	For Newark users, navigate to here
You will see the page below:

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Select Download, save the file without changing its name, and then run the installer.
3.	Once the installer has finished, all printers advertised by a particular Mobility Print server will be installed on the your computer.
o	New Brunswick and Camden:
	camden_bw (for black and white printing in Camden)
	camden_color (for color printing in Camden)
	nb_bw (for black and white printing in NB)
	nb_color (for color printing in NB)
o	Newark:
	newark_bw (for black and white printing in Newark)
	newark_color (for color printing in Newark)
The first time you print to any of these printers, you will be prompted to "Enter your name and password for the printer," and you should enter your NetID and password.
 
macOS
1.	Go to the installation page
o	For New Brunswick and Camden users, navigate here
o	For Newark users, navigate here
You will see the page below:

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Select Download, save the file without changing its name, and then run the installer. Please note: you must authorize the installer with an admin account on your Mac.
3.	Once the installer has finished, all printers advertised by a particular Mobility Print server will be installed on the your computer.
o	New Brunswick and Camden:
	camden_bw (for black and white printing in Camden)
	camden_color (for color printing in Camden)
	nb_bw (for black and white printing in NB)
	nb_color (for color printing in NB)
o	Newark:
	newark_bw (for black and white printing in Newark)
	newark_color (for color printing in Newark)
The first time you print to any of these printers, you will be prompted to "Enter your name and password for the printer," and you should enter your NetID and password. You can save the login to your keychain so you are not prompted again each time you print.

Error! Filename not specified.
 
Android
1.	Go to the installation page
o	For New Brunswick and Camden users, navigate here
o	For Newark users, navigate here
You will see the page below:

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Select Install or Update to set up the Mobility Print app.
After the Mobility Print app has been set up, you can select any printer with the PaperCut icon Error! Filename not specified. next to it and print:
o	New Brunswick and Camden:
	camden_bw (for black and white printing in Camden)
	camden_color (for color printing in Camden)
	nb_bw (for black and white printing in NB)
	nb_color (for color printing in NB)
o	Newark:
	newark_bw (for black and white printing in Newark)
	newark_color (for color printing in Newark)
 
iOS
1.	Go to the installation page
o	For New Brunswick and Camden users, navigate here
o	For Newark users, navigate here
Note: iPads with an M1 chip should use the direct links below as they may be directed to the Mac installer if using the above links:
o	For New Brunswick and Camden users, navigate here
o	For Newark users, navigate here
You will see the page below:

Error! Filename not specified.
1.	 
2.	Tap Download to download your Mobility Print profile. You need to use Safari to download and install the profile.
3.	Open iOS Settings
4.	Tap Profile Downloaded > Install Or Tap General > Profile > PaperCut Mobility Print for iOS > Install
5.	When it’s time to print, select an available printer:
o	New Brunswick and Camden:
	camden_bw (for black and white printing in Camden)
	camden_color (for color printing in Camden)
	nb_bw (for black and white printing in NB)
	nb_color (for color printing in NB)
o	Newark:
	newark_bw (for black and white printing in Newark)
	newark_color (for color printing in Newark)
" KB0012544 Printing (with PaperCut) How do I release my print job? "
Once a file has been sent to print, the file is held in the queue. The print job can be released at the nearest multifunction printer (MFP) or print release station. 
Print Release Station Process
1.	On a Print Release Station, swipe your RUID or Raider card. The screen will change to show a list of the print jobs currently in this queue.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	From this screen, you can then select to print or cancel the jobs. You will also be able to view the current balance, the page count, and the cost of your jobs. Please note that the print balance shown is the combined amount available between the OIT-provided balance and any funds on either your RU Express account or Raider Dollar Account.

Error! Filename not specified.
Printer Release Process
1.	 At a printer equipped with a connected card reader, swipe or tap your Rutgers ID card to authenticate. 

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Tap Print all to automatically release all available print jobs, or tap Print release to display an itemized view of your available print jobs. 

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	On the Print Release screen, each available print job is listed, along with basic information about each job.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	To view the cost of a print job, tap the checkbox on the left side, and the cost information will be displayed. To view further details of the selected print job, tap the arrow on the right. 

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	To go back to the previous screen after reviewing the details of the print job, tap the return arrow.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0012545 Printing (with PaperCut) How do I see my print balance and add funds? "
Check your print balance
To check your print balance, visit the PaperCut website and enter your NetID and password. You must be connected to the RUWirelessSecure network or the Rutgers VPN to access the website. 
Add funds
If you exceed the $30 printing allocation, you can continue to print by adding funds to your account.
For individuals affiliated with Rutgers–New Brunswick or Rutgers–Camden, further charges would be deducted from your RU Express account. If you need to add funds, you can do so on the RUExpress website.
For individuals affiliated with Rutgers–Newark, further charges would be deducted from your Raider Dollar Account. If you need to add funds to your Raider Dollar Account, individuals can add more funds online using the Newark eAccounts website.
" KB0016525 Printing (with PaperCut) How to allow PaperCut to scan to your OneDrive "
The scanning feature available in PaperCut allows you to send or save scanned documents to various destinations, including cloud storage. 
You must go through the scanning process to generate an email with instructions to allow PaperCut to save scanned documents to your OneDrive. This email will contain a link that asks you to log in to OneDrive for Business to do a one-time authorization of the Scans for PaperCut MF application to send files to your OneDrive for Business account. This authorization link is valid for 24 hours; after this time, the scanned document will be automatically deleted. Once authorized, access remains valid for 90 days after your last scanned document is saved to OneDrive. If you are scanning to your OneDrive more than 90 days after you last did, you will have to go through this authorization process again. 

Please note that all emails sent from the PaperCut system will be sent to your netid@rutgers.edu email address. If you are unsure if your netid@rutgers.edu address delivers to Rutgers Connect or ScarletMail, go to the Manage Email Addresses page, and check the delivery location under Delivery Addresses for Personalized Email Addresses.
1.	You will need to create a scanned document following the instructions on how to scan to OneDrive on PaperCut.
2.	After the document is scanned, you should receive an email with further instructions. Click Login to OneDrive for Business in the email to set up the scan to OneDrive feature. This only needs to be done the first time you attempt to scan.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	You'll get a confirmation that the setup of the scan to OneDrive feature has been completed. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Once the scanned document has been processed by PaperCut and saved to your OneDrive cloud storage, you should receive another email confirmation with details about the scanned document.
5.	ClickGo to your scan! in the e-mail, which will open the scanned document in a web browser. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
Alternatively, you can navigate to the Apps > Scans for PaperCut MF folder in your OneDrive.

     Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0014049 Printing (with PaperCut) How to identify and remove older Mobility Print printers KB0016527 Printing (with PaperCut) How to scan to OneDrive with PaperCut "
If this is your first time using the Scan to OneDrive feature, make sure to follow the instructions on how to allow Papercut to access your OneDrive before following the steps below. Allowing this access only needs to be done once during your first scan. 
1.	On a multi-function printer (MFP) configured for the PaperCut system, swipe your RUID card to authenticate.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Tap Scan from the PaperCut main menu.



Error! Filename not specified.
3.	You will see a menu of various scan options that will differ per user. However, everyone should at least see the following options:
o	Scan to my Email: the scanned document will be sent to your netid@rutgers.edu email address.
o	Scan to OneDrive: the scanned document will be saved to your OneDrive. 

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	The default settings for the scanned document are shown on the display.  

Error! Filename not specified.
o	By default, the name of the scanned document will follow this format:
     scan_{your NetID}_{4-digit-year}-{2 digit month}-{2 digit hour -24 hour clock}-{2 digit minute}-{2 digit second}-{2 digit millisecond}
o	To change any of the default scan settings for a scanned document, tap Settings.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Tap Start Scanning when ready to begin the scanning process.
6.	Once the scanning process is complete, you will be returned to the PaperCut main menu.
" KB0016529 Printing (with PaperCut) PaperCut Scan to OneDrive FAQ "
Table of Contents
•	Who has access to "Scan to OneDrive" at the University?
•	How do I allow PaperCut to saved scanned document files to my OneDrive?
•	Where are scanned documents saved in OneDrive by default? Can this default location be changed?
•	Can the filename of the scanned document be changed?
•	Can I change my e-mail address that is used for receiving scanned documents via email?
•	I have already allowed PaperCut to save scanned documents to my OneDrive. Why have I received another email asking me to allow this access?
Who has access to Scan to OneDrive at the University?
While Scan to OneDrive will be listed as a scan option for all PaperCut users, only users who have access to OneDrive on Rutgers Connect will be able to save scanned documents to OneDrive. This includes:
•	
o	Students
o	Faculty
o	Staff
There are roles within the University that do not receive Rutgers Connect access by default but can be granted access with local IT approval. These roles include:
•	
o	Emeritus
o	Guest
Also, there are some roles within the University that are not granted Rutgers Connect access and, therefore, would not be able to save scanned documents to OneDrive. These include:
•	
o	Alumni
o	Retiree
Please note that a person can have multiple roles with the University, and if they are assigned at least one role that is granted Rutgers Connect access, they will be able to save scanned documents to OneDrive.  For example, someone who is an Alumni and a Staff member would be granted access to saved scanned documents to OneDrive via their Staff role.
How do I allow PaperCut to save scanned document files to my OneDrive?
The first time you scan to your OneDrive, you'll need to follow the instructions to allow Papercut access to your OneDrive. 
Where are scanned documents saved in OneDrive by default? Can this default location be changed?
The default location in your OneDrive is under My Files > Apps > Scans for PaperCut MF. This default location cannot be changed. However, you can move the scanned document file to any other folder once it has been saved to your OneDrive.
Can the filename of the scanned document be changed?
The filename of the scanned document can be changed during the scanning process while using the multi-function printer. If you tap the filename, a touchscreen keyboard should appear to let you edit the filename:
     Error! Filename not specified.

Please note that when saving scanned documents to OneDrive, you could experience issues if you happen to re-use the name of a scanned document that already exists in the destination.  If you still would like to change the name of the scanned document, here are some suggestions to avoid these issues:
•	
o	Leave the filename generated by PaperCut during the scan process, which contains a timestamp to help avoid duplicate names. The scanned document can be renamed once it arrives in your OneDrive.
o	Edit the filename, but leave the timestamp portion of the generated document name, guaranteeing that a file of the same name doesn't already exist in OneDrive.
Can I change the email address I use to receive scanned documents via email?
All emails sent from the PaperCut system will be sent to your netid@rutgers.edu email address. If you are unsure if your netid@rutgers.edu address delivers to Rutgers Connect or ScarletMail, go to the Manage Email Addresses page, and check the delivery location under Delivery Addresses for Personalized Email Addresses.
I have already allowed PaperCut to save scanned documents to my OneDrive. Why have I received another email asking me to allow this access?
If you haven't saved a scan to your OneDrive in the past 90 days, the authorization token created during the initial confirmation process will expire. You'll need to follow the instructions to allow PaperCut access to your OneDrive to create a new authorization.
" KB0016057 Printing (with PaperCut) Poster printing in the OIT computing labs "
OIT offers three wide-width printers (plotters) for poster printing.
Location
One is located in the College Ave Computer Center in the Academic Building on College Avenue, another is in the Allison Road Classroom Computing Lab on Busch, and an additional one is in the Loree Computing Lab on Cook/Douglass. Poster printers are not available on the Livingston campus. 
Cost
The cost for printing is $1.50 per square foot. For example, a 3ft x 2ft poster would cost $9.00. 
Supported File Types
You can use several software programs to print to the plotter, but Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, and Adobe applications are most commonly used. The plotters work with files that are .doc, .pdf, .ppt, or .tiff; however, .pdf is the recommended file type. 
Please ensure the size of the printed file is not too large. File sizes of 200MB or greater may cause issues where the print job will not appear when you go to get the print released. If the file size is large (exceeds 100MB), please try flattening the PDF using Adobe Photoshop or the images used within the poster. If the original PDF width and height don't match the sizes mentioned below in the Available Sizes section, please use Photoshop to resize the dimensions of the PDF. You can flatten or resize PDFs in Photoshop by doing the following:
1.	Open Photoshop and select New File to create a new document.
2.	Set the Width and Height corresponding to the poster size you will be printing. 
o	For example, if printing for size E, you would set Width to 34 Inches and Height to 44 Inches.
3.	Set the Resolution to 300 Pixels/Inch.
4.	Select Create to create the document.
5.	Select File > Open... and open the PDF that needs to be flattened or size-adjusted. 
o	This PDF should open in a secondary tab next to the Untitled-1 document you created.
6.	Select the whole PDF using Ctrl + A.
7.	Switch to the Untitled-1 document you created, and paste what you copied using Ctrl + V.
8.	Resize, rotate, and adjust the pasted content as needed using Ctrl + T to enable transform mode.
9.	Press the checkmark icon in the top bar or Enter, to finalize the transformation.
10.	Select File > Save as... and change the Save as type to Photoshop PDF.
11.	Select Save to save the PDF, then use this instead of the original large file size or an incorrectly-dimensioned PDF.
Available Sizes
The plotter is set to print predetermined sizes, which are depicted by letters in the print options. Print time ranges from 1 to 3 minutes, depending on the size chosen. 
•	A (Letter): 8.5 x 11 inches ~ $0.97
•	B (Tabloid): 11 x17 inches ~ $1.95
•	C: 17 x 22 inches ~ $3.90
•	D: 22 x 34 inches ~ $7.79
•	E: 34 x 44 inches ~ $15.58
 
     Error! Filename not specified.
 
How to Print on Windows OS
These are the recommended instructions on how to print to the poster printers. Note that you will not print with the regular print dialog box.
1.	It's highly recommended that you save your document as a PDF. If using another application/software (e.g., Canva, Google Docs), resize the document before saving as a PDF.
2.	Open the document using Adobe Acrobat DC (recommended) or an alternate PDF application. 
3.	Select the printer icon to access the print dialog box.
4.	Select the appropriate plotter print queue depending on your location. 
o	ARC Computing Lab: \\pcutbusprint\arc_plotter_q
o	Loree Computing Lab: \\pcutcdprint\lor_plotter_q
o	College Ave Computer Center Lab: \\pcutcaprint\ab-gal_plotter-q

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Select Properties > Layout/Output > Fit to:
6.	Select the desired poster size in the drop-down menu: Letter, Tabloid, C, D, or E. 
o	Do not select any of the Arch size options.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Select OK.
8.	Select Page Setup. 
1.	Select the desired poster size: Letter, Tabloid, C, D, or E. 
	Do not select any of the Arch size options.
2.	Set Source to Roll.
3.	Set Orientation to Portrait regardless of whether your poster is in portrait or landscape orientation. 

Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Select OK
10.	Under the Page Sizing & Handling section, it is recommended to select Fit or Actual Size. If you need to resize manually: 
o	Select Custom Scale and type in the appropriate scale value as a percentage in the field provided.
o	Select Poster and then immediately press the size to update the print preview.

Error! Filename not specified.

Error! Filename not specified.
11.	Verify that the print preview looks as intended. Note that most print previews will often have a significant amount of white space.
12.	Once everything looks as intended, select Print. 
After you send the job, see a consultant to print it. You should ensure you have enough funds to cover the cost of the printout. If not, you can add funds to your printing balance.
How to Print on Mac OS
These are the recommended instructions on how to print to the poster printers. Note that you will not print with the regular print dialog box.
1.	It's highly recommended that you save your document as a PDF. If using another application/software (e.g., Canva, Google Docs), resize the document before saving as a PDF.
2.	Open the document using Adobe Acrobat DC (recommended) or Preview.
3.	Select the printer icon to access the print dialog box.
4.	Select the appropriate plotter print queue depending on your location. 
o	ARC Computing Lab: \\pcutbusprint\arc_plotter_q
o	Loree Computing Lab: \\pcutcdprint\lor_plotter_q
o	College Ave Computer Center Lab: \\pcutcaprint\ab-gal_plotter-q
5.	For Page Sizing & Handling, select Fit.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Select Page Setup on the lower right-hand of the print dialog box.
7.	Select the appropriate plotter printer under Format For.
8.	Select the appropriate paper size under the Paper Size option. 
o	Select the desired poster size: US Letter (8.5 x 11), Tabloid (11 x 17), C (17 x 22), ANSI D (22 x 34), or ANSI E (34 x 44)  
	Do not select any of the Arch size options.

Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Select OK
10.	Verify that the print preview looks as intended.
11.	Once everything looks as intended, select Print. 
After you send the job, see a consultant to print it. You should ensure you have enough funds to cover the cost of the printout. If not, you can add funds to your printing balance.
" KB0012626 Printing (with PaperCut) Printing overview for departments "
Print management via PaperCut is available for departments throughout the University. Faculty and staff may print from office computers and laptops, as well as mobile devices connected to the RUWireless Secure wireless network.
Copy and scan management is also available via PaperCut. For more information, please submit an EDM Technical Support form and include information about the multi-function printers (MFPs) used at your department locations.
Checking your print transaction history
To check your print transaction history, visit the PaperCut website and enter your NetID and password. Please note that if you would like to access this remotely, you will need to log into the Cisco AnyConnect VPN first.
If you do not have it installed on your device, please download it from the VPN Download page on the Software Portal.
Have issues printing?
If you encounter issues printing, copying or scanning via PaperCut, please fill out a Technical Request form.
 
" KB0012627 Printing (with PaperCut) "Printing overview for Students, Faculty and Staff" "
Printing is available for Students, Faculty, and Staff at the Office of Information Technology computer labs. You may print to black-and-white or color printers from lab computers, wirelessly via personal devices on RUWirelessSecure, or through Virtual Computer Labs.
You must release the print jobs via the print release stations in each computer lab printing location in Rutgers–New Brunswick, Rutgers–Newark, and Rutgers–Camden. Your RUID card is required to release print jobs. 
Printing rates
There will be no charge for the first $30 of printing that each individual releases during every six-month printing period (January to June; July to December). The $30 allocation is the same for all Students, Faculty, and Staff, regardless of the details of their academic and university arrangements (e.g., number of credits, part-time vs. full-time status, etc.). Rates for printing are as follows:
•	$.04 per sheet for black and white printing
•	$.25 per sheet for color printing
Please note that the $30 allocation is equivalent to:
•	750 sheets in black and white, OR
•	120 sheets in color, OR
•	any combination thereof
Remember, single-sided and double-sided sheets have the same rates, so everyone is encouraged to always print double-sided, which is the default setting on most Office of Information Technology lab computers.
Checking your print balance and adding funds
To check your print balance, visit the PaperCut website and enter your NetID and password. Note that to access this remotely, you will need to log in to the VPN first.
For individuals affiliated with Rutgers Health Sciences (RBHS), Rutgers–New Brunswick, or Rutgers–Camden, once your funds have depleted, further charges will be deducted from your RU Express account. If you need to add funds, you can do so through the RUExpress account website.
For individuals affiliated with Rutgers–Newark, further charges would be deducted from your Raider Dollar Account. If you need to add funds to your Raider Dollar Account, you can do so online using the Newark eAccounts website.
Have issues printing?
If you encounter issues printing, speak with a consultant in that specific computer lab.
Additional information
To learn more about the printing processes at an OIT computer lab, please visit the PaperCut knowledge base.
" KB0013020 Privacy and security FAQ for ScarletApps Are there specific risks due to some of Google's servers being hosted in other countries? "
By law, some intellectual property should not be stored outside of the United States. Individuals handling sensitive materials are reminded not to share this information via email regardless of the email provider.
Ultimately, an email that is intended for a user within the U.S. can be easily forwarded.
" KB0013023 Privacy and security FAQ for ScarletApps How does Google address privacy and security? "
Google is very concerned about the security and privacy of its users' data. Please see Google’s Privacy Policy.
Google provides information regarding how to stay safe online, how to manage your data, and the safety of your data on the web and on Google. Visit Google’s Safety Center for more information. 
" KB0013019 Privacy and security FAQ for ScarletApps How does ScarletMail handle spam and viruses? "
Google filters for viruses and spam before delivering the message. For more information, please see Google’s information on spam filters.
" KB0013021 Privacy and security FAQ for ScarletApps Is email a secure form of communication? "
Sensitive information should NEVER be sent through email. We advise against sending sensitive information via email for the following reasons:
•	Email could be intercepted and accessed by an unauthorized party
•	Email could be shared inappropriately by the recipient
•	Email could be compromised for as long as it is retained by you or the recipient
•	There are no retention controls over the recipient’s system
•	Accessing your email over an insecure network (i.e., Internet Cafe or open wireless network) can expose your user account information
•	Although encrypted connections can mitigate the risks of having ones’ authentication credentials compromised, email itself is still plain text when traveling between the sender and the recipient and can be easily intercepted
Regardless of the provider, email is not a secure method of communication. This applies to our current campus email systems as well as most third-party email providers.
" KB0013022 Privacy and security FAQ for ScarletApps Some of my ScarletMail emails contain confidential material. How will you maintain email privacy? "
Confidential or sensitive information should NEVER be sent through email.
Google maintains Privacy Policies for each of its applications. For a complete list and access to each of these policies, please visit Google’s Privacy Center.
" KB0013016 Privacy and security FAQ for ScarletApps What are the Policies or Terms of Service for the Google products and services I use? "
All of the products, applications, and services used in the ScarletApps at Rutgers environment are subject to the Rutgers University Acceptable Use Policy and Google’s Terms of Service for that product.
Individual products, applications, and services may have supplemental terms of service applied in addition to Google’s general Terms of Service. These supplemental terms of service can most often be found by selecting the link on the bottom of the page for that product under Terms and Policies.
If there is ever a conflict between Google’s Terms of Service and the Rutgers AUP, the Rutgers AUP takes precedent.
" KB0013024 Privacy and security FAQ for ScarletApps What constitutes sensitive information in the context of electronic communications? "
Sensitive information is information such as Social Security numbers, driver license numbers, credit card information, medical/health conditions, etc. None of this information should be sent via email, regardless of the email provider. As a general rule, privacy experts advise to consider whether it would be appropriate or desirable for the contents of the email to appear in a public forum (e.g., newspaper). Email operates as a postcard that can easily be read in transit and at the destination by unauthorized parties. It could be retained forever, or shared with unintended readers. For more information, please visit the Rutgers Information Classification Policy and Data Breach Management Policy. 
" KB0013027 Privacy and security FAQ for ScarletApps What is the ScarletMail name policy? "
Use your common first and last name. Impersonation is a serious issue. Pretending to be someone else could cause your profile to be deleted.
Follow Google's guide on how to change your Google account picture, name and other info.
Misrepresenting a user’s identity in any electronic communication is against Rutgers' Acceptable Use Policy.
" KB0013026 Privacy and security FAQ for ScarletApps Who owns the intellectual property rights? "
Although data will be stored by Google, Rutgers retains all intellectual property rights of its data.
" KB0013025 Privacy and security FAQ for ScarletApps Will my personal information from ScarletApps be shared with anyone outside of Rutgers? "
Please refer to Google’s Privacy Policy for more information.
" KB0016416 Publishers & Textbooks First Day – Canvas Course Coding and Instructor Assignment Instructions "
This page describes how to code a course in the Course Scheduling System to ensure that
•	All REGIS courses are created in Canvas.
•	You are enrolled as an instructor in the Canvas course.
•	Students receive a notification in the Online Schedule of Classes that a Course Materials Charge is associated with their course.
If you have elected to participate in the First Day™ Inclusive Access Program, sponsored by the Rutgers Bookstore, your course will need to be coded in the Rutgers Course Scheduling System. This task is usually performed by course coordinators or departmental administrators. However, course coding alone does not result in preferred pricing; you must work with the Rutgers Bookstore or your textbook representative to be included in the program. 
Instructor Assignments
1.	Click Add Instructor.
2.	Select “IN – Instructor” as the Course Role.
3.	Enter the NetID for that Instructor.
Print Comments
1.	Enter Print Comment “AI – First Day Course Materials Charge. Go to: firstday.rutgers.edu for more information” as the first print comment listed. Comment AI must be the first comment listed.
2.	Enter Print Comment “05 – Go to http://canvas.rutgers.edu“ in any Print Comment field.
Screenshot with Instructions
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0016419 Publishers & Textbooks First Day – Canvas Faculty Guide "
For instructors electing to take part in the First Day™ Inclusive Access Program, please work with your publisher representative or the Rutgers bookstore to be included in First Day and your departmental administrator or school-based registrar to properly code your course in the Rutgers Course Scheduling System.
Table of Contents
•	Course Preparation Timeline 
o	4 – 5 Months Before Class Start
o	4 – 6 Weeks Before Class Starts
o	2 Weeks Before Class Starts
o	First Day of Class
•	Canvas External Tool Configuration 
o	Steps
o	Setup First Day Course Materials Link Tutorial
o	Managing First Day Course Materials for Cross-listed Sections
•	Sample Student Messaging 
o	Student Tutorial Videos
•	Customer Care Contact Information
Course Preparation Timeline
4 – 5 Months Before Class Start
•	Log in to the MyRutgers campus portal.
•	In the My Apps tab, use the Bookstore Adoptions (AIP) app to formally adopt your textbook.
•	Contact your Rutgers bookstore manager or your publisher representative to let them know that you would like your course section(s) to participate in First Day.
4 – 6 Weeks Before Class Starts
•	If using publisher courseware (i.e., MyLab, Connect, MindTap), be sure the publisher link is added in your Canvas course site and that you have completed all course setup/pairing. For each publisher, view the Canvas External Apps page for information on enabling the content in your Canvas course. 
•	Ensure that the First Day Course Materials link is visible to students in your First Day courses by enabling it in your course navigation (See Canvas External Tool Configuration).
2 Weeks Before Class Starts
•	Ensure messaging is added to your syllabus and Canvas course that describes the program and its benefits. (See Sample Student Messaging.)
•	Share the Welcome Email (provided by your Bookstore Manager) with your students.
First Day of Class
•	Let students know about this program, which will save them money on their course materials!
•	Ensure students know they can opt out in Canvas via the First Day Course Materials link.
•	Direct any student concerns or questions to the Rutgers Campus bookstore or the Barnes & Noble College Customer Care team, and provide students with the Customer Care Contact Information in this article.
Canvas External Tool Configuration
As an instructor for a First Day™/Inclusive Access course, you will need to add the First Day Course Materials link in Canvas so that students can opt out of the program, if they wish, during the opt-out period only. If the material is an eTextbook only, students can also access their titles at this link.
Steps
1.	Log in to Canvas with your instructor username and password and navigate to the course site that requires the First Day Course Materials link.
2.	Click Settings from the left-hand course navigation.
3.	Click the Navigation tab, and scroll down to the hidden items at the bottom of the list.
4.	Look for the First Day Course Materials in the list.
5.	Click and hold First Day Course Materials, then drag it up to the list of active navigation links, or select the three dots next to the tool and choose Enable.
6.	Click Save.
7.	The First Day Course Materials link will now be available in the left-hand navigation of your course. You may have to refresh your window to see it.
8.	Repeat these steps for any additional Canvas course sites that require the First Day Course Materials link.
Setup First Day Course Materials Link Tutorial
     
First Day™ Faculty Add Course Materials Link – Canvas from Barnes & Noble College on Vimeo.
Managing First Day Course Materials for Cross-listed Sections
Before cross-listing your Canvas course sections, course instructors must follow the Canvas External Tool Configuration steps outlined above for each course site to activate First Day, ensuring that all students in your merged course site have access to your course materials.
 
If any sections of a cross-listed site don't appear in First Day, please try the steps below to have all sections appear.
1.	Contact the Canvas Help Desk and request that your course site be decross-listed.
2.	Add First Day to each section individually.
3.	Recross-list all sections. If the course material was previously imported, ensure the cross-listed course uses the same bucket course.
Sample Student Messaging
To enhance your learning experience and provide affordable access to the right course material, this course is part of an inclusive access model called First Day™. You can easily access the required materials for this course at a discounted price and benefit from single sign-on in Canvas with no codes required.
Rutgers University will bill you at the discounted price as a course charge for these course materials.
It is NOT recommended that you opt out, as these materials are required to complete the course. You can opt out on the first day of class, but you will be responsible for purchasing your course materials at full retail price, and access to your materials may be suspended.
For more information and FAQs, go to Barnes & Noble Customer Care.
Student Tutorial Videos
•	Accessing Your eTextbook
•	Opting Out of First Day for your eTextbook
•	Opting Out of First Day for your courseware
•	Other Features on the Course Materials page
Customer Care Contact Information
Customer Care is available 24/7 to help students with questions about accessing their course material, using their eTextbook, or opting out or into the First Day program. Be sure to share the information below with your students.
•	Barnes and Noble Customer Care
•	FAQs and Tutorial Videos for the First Day Program
•	Open a ticket online for the Customer Care team
•	Email the Customer Care team: bookstorecustomercare@bncollege.com
•	Call the Customer Care team: 1-844-9-EBOOKS (1-844-932-6657)
Questions? Contact your Bookstore Manager via email or phone:
•	Customer Care Book Store Manager Contact Information
" KB0016432 Publishers & Textbooks Library Tutorials – An Introduction for Instructors "
Many college students arrive on campus without essential information skills, creating gaps between faculty expectations and student ability. Our tutorials help bring them up to speed in a convenient, easy-to-use format.
Table of Contents
•	What is this content? 
o	On-Demand Lessons
o	Master Courses
•	Who can use this content, and who is providing it?
•	When can I use the lessons in my course?
•	How will these skills help my students succeed?
•	Which Library Tutorial do I use?
•	Who do I contact for more information?
What is this content?
Our tutorials are high-quality, standards-driven learning objects designed to introduce students to the basics of locating, evaluating, and using information. They include video lessons as well as quizzes to assess understanding.
Tutorials let you focus precious classroom time on your course material rather than research skills. Your students can return to these activities for easy reference throughout the semester.
On-Demand Lessons
On-demand lessons for easy access to our most frequently requested topics:
•	Types of sources
•	Refining search results
•	How to read scholarly materials
•	Academic integrity
•	What is plagiarism?
•	Why citations matter
•	Citation style guides
•	Copyright
•	And more!
Master Courses
These tutorials provide comprehensive deep-dives that can be embedded directly into Canvas:
•	Communication, for increasing the effectiveness of oral, written, and visual communication
•	Critical Thinking, for developing the ability to evaluate, analyze, and synthesize information
•	Health Science, for building skills to locate health resources, apply appropriate research methods, and participate in evidence-based practice
•	Information Literacy, for building skills to locate, cite, manage, and ethically use information
The lessons are mapped to instructional standards, including the Association of American Colleges and Universities (AAC&U VALUE) Rubrics for Information and Literacy and others, the Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL) Framework for Information Literacy, and the ACRL Visual Literacy Standards.
Who can use this content, and who is providing it?
The Scholarly Information Tutorials content is provided by the Rutgers University Libraries through licenses with Weave and Credo Reference, two leading library instruction providers, for use by Rutgers University instructors on all campuses.
When can I use the lessons in my course?
Tutorials are available as both on-demand lessons that can be accessed on the Libraries’ website and master courses that can be embedded directly into Canvas.
•	As a flipped classroom or to prepare for specialized library instruction: Assigning students to view a video or work through a lesson before they attend a specialized library instruction class can encourage more productive class time.
•	At various points during a scaffolded assignment: Rather than introducing students to multiple concepts at once, you may want to deploy them to students at various points in their process. If you have scaffolded an assignment, with milestones such as a research question, topic choice, working thesis, or annotated bibliography, consider having students review individual lessons as they begin that particular component of the assignment. Quizzes associated with many of the lessons will help you assess their understanding of a particular aspect of research or information literacy concepts.
•	In a first-year or transition class: Many of the lessons can help students appreciate the big-picture importance of information literacy, strong research and evaluation, and communication skills. You may want to select these lessons at the beginning of a unit or as one component of their success in a first-year experience course.
•	At the beginning of a major project: Students may be overwhelmed at the beginning of a major project and not know where to get started. The multimedia lessons cover a wide range of topics essential to success in research, from choosing a topic to evaluating sources.
•	At the point of need: Your students may be working on an assignment independently, but you want them to have access to resources that can help them throughout the research process as needed, such as a tutorial on database searching when they are in the process of finding sources, or a video about the citation style they need to use.
How will these skills help my students succeed?
•	Getting Started with Research – Introduce your students to the basics of conducting research, from selecting appropriate sources to refining search results.
•	Presenting Research and Data – Empower students to communicate their findings effectively in papers and presentations.
•	Academic Integrity – Help your students use information ethically by understanding plagiarism and copyright.
•	Writing and Citing – Step-by-step guides to citing in AMA, APA, Chicago, and MLA styles.
Research has found that students who receive information literacy instruction have higher retention rates and GPAs, as well as successfully complete more credit hours per year than peers who did not receive such instruction (Greater Western Library Alliance, “The Impact of Information Literacy Instruction on Student Success: A Multi-Institutional Investigation and Analysis,” 2017).
Library tutorials help prepare students with the skills they need to successfully evaluate information both inside and outside the classroom.
Which Library Tutorial do I use?
The tutorials are ideal for undergraduate students who need an introduction to the foundations of scholarly research or for anyone who wants to brush up on the key skills needed to successfully accomplish any research-based project.
Your library liaison can help you select the most relevant lessons for your course.
Who do I contact for more information?
For questions about the Library Tutorials content or to supplement the online instruction, please contact the Rutgers Libraries Instructional Support Team.
•	Library Tutorials: Documentation and Resources
•	Library Tutorials in Canvas
" KB0016433 Publishers & Textbooks Library Tutorials – Instructor Quick Start Guide "
The following are items to do or consider doing when setting up a Library Tutorial course for use:
•	Each assignment (e.g., lesson, quiz, activity) in the course is unpublished (i.e., in a draft state). Once you have imported the course, please review all the content and publish the assignments that you would like your students to see.
•	Each assignment has been set up with 0 points. To make an assignment required or to include quiz assessments in your course grade, you will need to change the points and due date. If you would like to set the point value and make other edits, such as setting due dates and assignment availability, edit the assignment. You may change the assignment group according to your course assignment breakdown as described in your syllabus.
•	You are encouraged to move the assignments to the appropriate modules in your course so that they work cohesively with your topics. Change the order of the assignments to align with your syllabus.
•	There are four citation styles addressed in the Information Literacy course. If only certain styles are appropriate for your discipline, you are free to select and publish the assignments for just those styles if you wish.
It is recommended that you work with instructional support from the Rutgers Libraries when importing content to your course.
" KB0016802 Publishers & Textbooks LinkedIn Learning - Adding LinkedIn Learning Content as an Ungraded Activity in Canvas "
LinkedIn Learning videos, courses, or pathways can be added to a Canvas course as an ungraded activity in two ways.
Table of Contents
•	Creating an Ungraded Canvas Assignment 
•	Using the Rich Content Editor in a Canvas Page or Assignment 
Creating an Ungraded Canvas Assignment 
1.	Log in to Rutgers Canvas and navigate to your course. 
2.	In your Canvas course, click Assignments in the course navigation. Add a new assignment. You may also add an assignment type to an existing Module. 
3.	Edit your assignment settings to include points and due dates, if any.
4.	Check the box to Do not count this assignment towards the final grade.
5.	Check the box to Load This Tool In A New Tab. 
6.	For Submission Type, choose External Tool from the dropdown menu and click on the Find button.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	In the Configure External Tool window, select LinkedIn Learning 1-3.

Error! Filename not specified.
8.	In the Link Resource from the External Tool window, search for a topic (A) and use filters (B) to refine the type of search results that are displayed. Select the LinkedIn Learning content by clicking Add (C). Confirm your selection (D).

Error! Filename not specified.

9.	The URL field will be populated with the LinkedIn Learning content; click Select.

Error! Filename not specified.
10.	Click Save or Save and Publish. The assignment title and details are replaced with the title and description of the LinkedIn Learning content.

Error! Filename not specified.
Note: If you select a video as part of a LinkedIn Learning course, LinkedIn Learning will continue to the next video segment in the course. It is recommended that you note this behavior for your students.
Using the Rich Content Editor in a Canvas Page or Assignment 
1.	Log in to Rutgers Canvas. 
2.	Navigate to your Canvas course or group space. 
3.	Create a new (or edit an existing) Canvas page or assignment. 
4.	Using the Rich Context Editor, place your cursor in the position you would like to add your LinkedIn Learning content. 
5.	Click Apps (looks like power plug) in the toolbar. You may need to click View All to find the option for LinkedIn Learning 1-3. However, after doing this, a shortcut will be created for future use. 

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	A pop-up will appear. Scroll down (1) or search (2) for LinkedIn Learning. Click LinkedIn Learning 1-3 (3). Click Done (4). 

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	In the Link Resource from External Tool window, search for a topic (A), and use filters (B) to refine the type of search results that are displayed. Select the LinkedIn Learning content by clicking Add (C). A message will display that the content has been successfully added (D). Confirm your selection (E).

Error! Filename not specified.
8.	Scroll down and click Save. Now the LinkedIn Learning content will be displayed as part of the Canvas assignment or page. If you select a video as part of a LinkedIn Learning course, LinkedIn Learning will continue to the next video segment in the course. It is recommended that you note this behavior for your students.

Error! Filename not specified. 
  
  
 
" KB0016285 Publishers & Textbooks LinkedIn Learning – Adding a Linkedin Learning Course or Video as a Canvas Assignment "
LinkedIn Learning is available as an integration in Rutgers Canvas. Instructors may assign LinkedIn Learning courses or videos for students. Instructors may already have a learner account available from the Rutgers Office of Information Technology LinkedIn Learning website. The following directions are divided into two parts, which describe the process of creating an assignment for LinkedIn Learning videos or courses and grading your Canvas Assignment. Elevated LinkedIn Learning permissions are needed for Canvas course instructors to create LinkedIn Learning Learning Paths and Collections, which can be assigned in Canvas. Please email the Rutgers Canvas Help Desk to request curator permissions for LinkedIn Learning.
Table of Contents
•	Canvas Assignment Setup
•	Grading Your LinkedIn Learning Assignment
Canvas Assignment Setup
1.	Log into Canvas and navigate to your course.
2.	In your Canvas course, click Assignments in the course navigation. Users can add a new assignment or add an assignment type to an existing Module.
3.	Edit your assignment settings to include points and due dates. 
4.	For Submission Type, choose External Tool from the dropdown menu and click on the Find button.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	In the Configure External Tool window, select LinkedIn Learning.

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Check the box to Load in a new tab. 
7.	Click Select.
8.	In the Link Resource from External Tool window, search for a topic (A), and use filters (B) to refine the type of search results that are displayed. Select the LinkedIn Learning content by clicking Add (C). Confirm your selection (D). It may be beneficial to search for LinkedIn Learning content in another tab (E).

     Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Click Save or Save and Publish. The assignment title and details are replaced with the title and description of the LinkedIn Learning content.

     Error! Filename not specified.

Note: If you select a video as part of a LinkedIn Learning course, LinkedIn Learning will continue to the next video segment in the course. It is recommended that you add a note to your students indicating what section they need to watch.

     Error! Filename not specified.
Grading Your LinkedIn Learning Assignment
LinkedIn Learning will automatically enter the points in your gradebook when your student has completed the LinkedIn Learning content that you have assigned. Students must watch the content completely. No partial scores are assigned based on progression. 
" KB0016286 Publishers & Textbooks LinkedIn Learning – Creating Custom Learning Paths as Canvas Assignments "
LinkedIn Learning is available as an integration in Rutgers Canvas. Instructors may already have a learner account available from the Rutgers LinkedIn Learning website. The following directions are divided into four parts that describe the process to gain additional permissions needed to use the Canvas integration to link to LinkedIn Learning Pathways, creating an assignment for a custom-created LinkedIn Learning Pathway, and grading your Canvas Assignment.
Table of Contents
•	Request elevated permissions to create Learning Paths in LinkedIn Learning
•	Create a Learning Path in LinkedIn Learning
•	Canvas Assignment Setup
•	Grading Your LinkedIn Learning Assignment
Request elevated permissions to create Learning Paths in LinkedIn Learning
Learning paths are curated LinkedIn Learning courses and videos that you’d like your student to take in sequence. To create learning paths in LinkedIn Learning, Canvas course instructors must contact the faculty Canvas support at Rutgers to request curator permissions for LinkedIn Learning:
•	New Brunswick and Rutgers Health 
o	833-648-4357
o	help@canvas.rutgers.edu
•	Camden 
o	856-225-6090
o	idt@camden.rutgers.edu
•	Newark 
o	973-353-1713
o	atshelp@newark.rutgers.edu
Create a Learning Path in LinkedIn Learning
1.	Once your curator permissions have been granted for LinkedIn Learning, log in to the Rutgers LinkedIn Learning portal.
2.	Click +Add to the right of the search bar and select Create learning path from the dropdown menu. (See LinkedIn Learning: Create a learning path or collection as an admin.)

     Error! Filename not specified. 
3.	From the pop-up that appears, click: 
o	Create new if you’d like to build a new learning path, and skip to Step 5.
o	Copy existing if you’d like to copy and customize an existing learning path to fit your needs. If you choose this option, click Select from the learning path you’d like to copy. You can then edit the learning path to personalize it. If you’ve never created a new learning path, click Start now.
4.	In the Create new Learning Path: Details window: 
o	Add a default or custom thumbnail: Select the Default thumbnail image or upload a custom thumbnail image.
o	Add title: The title of your learning path.
o	Add description: A summary of what the learning path is about.
o	Select content language: Select the language of the learning path.
o	Set discoverability: Define who can find this content on their homepage and in search results. Anyone within your organization can view the content with a shared link.
o	Add skills: The skills you think learners will develop after watching the learning path.
o	Add custom tags: Tags that are unique to your organization and will help learners search for the learning path.
5.	Click Create.
6.	Add a section title, add a section description, and click Add content. You may select +Add existing custom content and LinkedIn Learning content or +Add new linked custom content.
7.	If you choose to add the LinkedIn Learning content, click the +Add icon.
8.	When you have added all the courses and videos you would like, click X Close in the top right.
9.	You can then click Add new section or click Save & Publish in the upper right corner.
10.	When you have added all the courses and videos you would like, click Close in the top right.
11.	You can then click Add new section or click Save & Publish in the upper right corner. Learn more about editing a learning path.
Canvas Assignment Setup
1.	Log in to Canvas and navigate to your course.
2.	In your Canvas course, click Assignments in the course navigation. You can add a new assignment or add an assignment type to an existing Module.
3.	Edit your assignment settings to include points and due dates.
4.	For Submission Type, choose External Tool from the dropdown menu and click on the Find button.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	In the Configure External Tool window, select LinkedIn Learning.

     Error! Filename not specified.
 
6.	Check the box to Load in a new tab.
7.	Click Select.
8.	In the Link Resource from External Tool window, search for a topic (A), use filters (B) to refine the search results for Learning Paths created by Rutgers. Select the LinkedIn Learning content by clicking Add (C). A success message will display (D). Confirm your selection (E).

     Error! Filename not specified.
 
9.	Click Select.
10.	Click Save or Save & Publish. The assignment title and details will be updated to match the Learning Path title and description.
Grading Your LinkedIn Learning Assignment
LinkedIn Learning will automatically enter the points in your Gradebook when your student has completed the LinkedIn Learning content that you have assigned. Students must watch the content completely. No partial scores are assigned based on progression. 
" KB0016448 Publishers & Textbooks Top Hat – iOS Mobile Apps for Students "
To use the Top Hat iOS mobile app, students must create a Top Hat account in a mobile or desktop browser before using the mobile app. You can use your Rutgers NetID to access Top Hat.
In-app purchases are not supported. Students must log into their Top Hat account (using their mobile or laptop web browser) to complete textbook purchases. The mobile app will no longer display this notification to students. Once purchases are completed in the web browser, students may access their course anytime from the web or the Top Hat mobile app.
Top Hat Support for Students
If you need assistance with your Top Hat account, subscription, or return form, please contact Top Hat student support directly via email or phone. Only Top Hat can manage accounts and refunds. Contact Top Hat support at support@tophat.com or call 1-888-663-5491.
Additional Resources
•	Top Hat Single Sign-on Account Set-up
•	Top Hat Support: Student: Quick Start Guide
" KB0012582 Qualtrics Log in to Qualtrics training with your Rutgers NetID "
Anyone with a Rutgers Qualtrics account has access to the training materials provided by Qualtrics, known as Basecamp. 
To log in to Qualtrics Basecamp and view its training videos, do the following:
1.	Go to the Basecamp website and select Log In on the top right-hand corner of the page.
2.	Select Qualtrics Credentials.
3.	Select Sign in with SSO.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Enter rutgers when it prompts you to type in your organization. Then click Continue.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Log in with your Rutgers NetID and password on the Rutgers Central Authentication Service (CAS) page.
6.	After logging in, you can visit their Quick Start page, which is designed for first-time users and features several videos to help you get started. Or view their full catalog for more in-depth topics.
" KB0013324 Qualtrics Require Rutgers Single Sign on (SSO) for a Qualtrics Survey "
To ensure that survey responses are only from Rutgers-related participants, you can restrict access to your survey by requiring Rutgers SSO, so that only those with an active NetID can complete it.
1.	While editing your survey, open the Survey flow.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click Add a New Element Here or Add Below.
3.	Select Authenticator.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Change Authentication Type to SSO.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Change SSO Type to Shibboleth.
6.	Set the Connection to be rutgers. 
7.	You may need to move the Authenticator to the top of your Survey Flow if you want to require SSO before starting the survey, then click Apply.
" KB0018272 Qualtrics Securing Qualtrics Surveys "
Any survey is susceptible to spam from Bots or other unwanted responses. Qualtrics has several tools available to help prevent these instances from compromising your survey and possibly skewing your data. 
Recommended minimum security settings
Captcha Verification
In captcha verification, the respondent is presented with a picture (or “challenge”) of words or characters, and the respondent must correctly type out those characters to proceed. This is especially important for surveys using a single link that allows anyone to take the survey anonymously. 
Survey Availability
With the survey availability setting, you can make your survey available until a set expiration date when the survey will be closed to new respondents. This is vital to ensuring surveys do not continue collecting responses long after the survey should have ended. 
Securing your Survey
Securing how someone accesses your survey is always an essential first step. These options can increase your survey’s security and help protect it from unwanted responses. Detailed instructions on enabling these features can be found on the Qualtrics Support page for Security Surveys Options. 
Survey Access
There are two ways a respondent can enter your survey. The first is to do so anonymously by clicking an anonymous link. The second, more secure way, is to click a unique link generated for specific individuals.
Password Protection
You can set a single, general password that any respondent must enter to access your survey. This is helpful when using the anonymous link and restricting who can enter the survey. 
Add a Referral Website URL
Specify the URL your respondents must come from to access your survey. This setting is useful if your survey link is posted on a particular website.
Prevent Indexing
Search engines create an index, or a map of all pages on the Internet, so they can be searched quickly. This keeps search engines from finding and presenting your survey in their search results.
Spam and Fraud Detection
In addition to securing your survey, it is recommended that you take further action to prevent bots or malicious actors from skewing your data. Detailed instructions on enabling these features can be found on the Qualtrics Support page for Fraud Detection. 
Prevent Multiple Submissions
This works by placing a cookie on the respondent's browser when they submit a response. The next time they click the survey link, Qualtrics will see this cookie and not permit them to take the survey again.
Bot detection
Every response is rated on the probability that the respondent was a bot, and their responses are flagged accordingly. 
Security Scan Monitor
Prevent email scanning software from inadvertently starting a survey session when a survey link is included in an email.
RelevantID
Analyze a respondent’s browser, operating system, and location to determine the likelihood that the same respondent is answering repeatedly.
" KB0013334 Qualtrics Sharing or Utilizing Groups for Qualtrics Surveys "
The use of the Qualtrics collaboration feature is always recommended prior to creating a Group since it is entirely controlled by you with no outside assistance needed and serves the purpose in most cases. Groups can be created, if necessary, but are subject to the process listed below anytime a change is required.
Collaboration
This is the recommended method of sharing a survey with another person. The collaboration feature allows you to give other people with Qualtrics accounts access to your surveys when they log into their accounts. That way, you can work on the same project without giving out your account information. You can even choose to restrict what type of access other people have to your project.
Groups
Groups allow you to work as a team with a shared library to store survey templates, contact lists, etc... Groups can only be created and managed by a Qualtrics Brand Administrator. 
Creating a new group
To request a group be created, send an email to qualtrics_support@oit.rutgers.edu and include:
•	Your name and NetID.
•	Brief, yet descriptive, name for the Group.
•	Names and NetIDs of the users they want to add to the group. They must have a Rutgers Qualtrics account already in order to be added.
Updating group membership
To either add or remove members to a Group, send an email to qualtrics_support@oit.rutgers.edu and include:
•	Your name and NetID
•	Name of the Group
•	Names and NetIDs of the users you want to add or remove. They must have a Rutgers Qualtrics account already in order to be added.
Support Articles for Groups
Accessing Group Libraries
Organizing Group Libraries
Utilizing Group Libraries 
Sharing a Contact List with a Group
" KB0013309 Qualtrics Submitting a Qualtrics Support Request "
For advanced assistance with utilizing features in Qualtrics or complex technical troubleshooting, reach out directly to the experts at Qualtrics using one of the two methods below. 
For help with any Rutgers-specific account questions, group/division management, or simple troubleshooting, email qualtrics_support@oit.rutgers.edu
Through the Support Website
1.	Navigate to the Qualtrics Support Website
2.	Click on Contact Support.
3.	On the login page, you MUST click on Sign in with SSO.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Type in rutgers as the Organization ID.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Sign in with your NetID and NetID Password.
6.	Once logged in, under Get Technical Support, click on Submit A Ticket.
7.	Under “Select a product area to see its available contact methods:” select Surveys & XM Directory.
8.	You will see an AI-driven chatbot. Enter your question and hit Send. 
9.	If the answer is not satisfactory, you can continue to speak with a person. 
10.	When the chatbot prompts “Did I answer your question?”, select No.
11.	Select Contact Support. 
12.	The chatbot will list all currently available contact methods.

Error! Filename not specified.
13.	Choose your preferred contact method with the Qualtrics Support team and fill out the requested information.
From within Qualtrics
1.	While logged into your Rutgers Qualtrics account, click on the question mark icon in the top right corner.
2.	Choose Contact Support at the bottom of the window that appears.
3.	If prompted, click on the Rutgers University option.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Once logged in, under Get Technical Support, click on Submit A Ticket.
5.	Under “Select a product area to see its available contact methods:” select Surveys & XM Directory.
6.	You will see an AI-driven chatbot. Enter your question and hit Send. 
7.	If the answer is not satisfactory, you can continue to speak with a person. 
8.	When the chatbot prompts “Did I answer your question?”, select No.
9.	Select Contact Support. 
10.	The chatbot will list all currently available contact methods.

Error! Filename not specified.
11.	Choose your preferred contact method with the Qualtrics Support team and fill out the requested information.
" KB0013332 Qualtrics Transferring Qualtrics Survey Ownership "
If you need to transfer the ownership of a survey, please complete the Qualtrics Transfer of Survey Ownership form.
A request to transfer the ownership must come from the current owner of the survey. If they are unavailable or no longer associated with Rutgers, you must include a Dean, Director, or relevant Department Head who was responsible for the survey owner's work. They will receive a request to approve the transfer after submitting the form. Only after they approve will the survey be transferred. 
If you wish to transfer surveys to an account outside of Rutgers or from an outside account into a Rutgers account, send an email to qualtrics_support@oit.rutgers.edu
" KB0015586 Remote Desktop Services Microsoft Remote Desktop Gateway Service: Administrator Directions "
Steps you will need to take to ensure your users can access their desktops via the Microsoft Remote Desktop Gateway Service.
Infrastructure
•	All hardware and host-based Firewalls will need to be configured to allow RDP Access from the Gateway Servers on the following networks (172.29.207.96/27) and (10.81.67.0/24).
•	The Current configuration of the RD Gateway is only set up for the standard RDP port: 3389
•	If you wish to use a non-standard port for your RDP traffic, please contact the EI Windows Team at ei_windows@oit.rutgers.edu and submit the ports you wish to use.
Local Machines
Each desktop will need to be configured to allow RDP Access, and user access should be limited to the specific users who need to access the machine.
1.	
1.	Press Windows + R to open the Run command window
2.	Run: %windir%\System32\SystemPropertiesRemote.exe
3.	On the System Properties window, select the option for Allow Remote Connections on this computer.
4.	Check the box for Allow connections only from computers running Remote Desktop with Network Level Authentication.
5.	Click on Select Users. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Click on Add. Or if you want to remove someone, click their username, then click Remove. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Enter the usernames of the individuals who require access. Click Check Names to confirm it has been entered properly, and the username is found, then select OK. 
	These settings can also be configured via Group Policy.
     Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0015731 Remote Desktop Services RBHS Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) Gateway access "
Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) Gateway provides RDP access to on-campus Windows desktops from external networks without requiring a Virtual Private Network (VPN). Once connected, you can access everything on your computer and on the network. Contact your local IT group to configure your PC to allow Remote Desktop connections.
Key factors to consider:
•	Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) staff must first complete VPN registration before configuring their RBHS desktop to allow Remote Desktop connections and permit traffic through local firewalls.
•	Contact your IT Team and confirm that your machine and network are enabled for the RD Gateway.
•	Speak with your IT Team to learn more about department-specific policies regarding the Remote access of University Owned Equipment and resources.
•	Before you can remotely connect to your machine, you will need a NetID and Password, and either the IP Address or Machine Name of the Remote Desktop.
•	This process is only compatible with two-step users configured to use the mobile app. It is not compatible with SMS or hardware tokens.
•	Follow the instructions to setup your Two-step login and devices with DUO, or use the VPN to access your devices.
Locating Machine Name and IP Address of Remote Desktop
Collecting the Machine Name of your Remote Desktop
1.	Click on Start.
2.	Click on Settings > System. 
3.	Click on About at the bottom left. 
4.	Record the Device Name. 

    Error! Filename not specified.

Collecting the Machine IP Address of your Remote Desktop
1.	Click on Start.
2.	Click on Settings > Network & Internet.
3.	Click on Ethernet (Wired) or Wi-Fi (Wireless).
4.	Click on the listed connection.
5.	Scroll down to Properties and record the IPv4 Address.

    Error! Filename not specified.
Setting up the Remote Desktop Connection (Windows)
1.	Open Remote Desktop Connection on your machine.
o	Click on Start and type “mstsc”, or “Remote Desktop” and select Remote Desktop Connection.
o	Alternatively, launch Run and enter: %windir%\system32\mstsc.exe

    Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Once Remote Desktop Connection launches, click Show Options.

    Error! Filename not specified.
3.	On the General tab:
1.	Enter your Computer Name or IP Address in the Computer field. If you do not have this information refer to the above instructions or contact your local IT Team.
2.	Enter CORE\netid into the User name field.
	Replace netid with your personal NetID (do not use any uppercase letters for your NetID). 
	Ensure you use a backslash (located above the Enter key on your keyboard) in CORE\NetID and not a forward slash.
	If your remote machine is not on Core and has other credentials (ex. RAD) use those here. The format would be: DOMAIN\username.

    Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click on the Advanced tab.
5.	In the Connect from Anywhere section, click on Settings…

      Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Select Use these RD Gateway server settings.
1.	Enter rbhsgateway.rutgers.edu in the Server Name field.
2.	Click OK.

    Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Click on Connect at the bottom.

      Error! Filename not specified.
8.	The RD Gateway Server Credentials Popup will prompt you for a username and password.
o	Enter rad\netid then your NetID Password and click OK. 
	Replace netid with your personal NetID (do not use any uppercase letters for your NetID). 
	Ensure you use a backslash (located above the Enter key on your keyboard) in rad\netid and not a forward slash.
	Do this even if your local machine does not use RAD.

    Error! Filename not specified.
9.	When connecting, you will receive a DUO Prompt on your configured device. Approve the Duo authentication request. 
o	You have 60 seconds to approve the DUO Login Request, or the session will timeout. If that happens, simply go back to step 8.
10.	Next, you will be prompted for the remote machine credentials. Enter the password for the computer you are connecting to. The username was entered in step 4.

      Error! Filename not specified.
11.	A security certificate warning will appear. Click Yes to approve. You can check the Don’t ask me again for connection to this computer option to avoid this prompt on future connections.

      Error! Filename not specified.
12.	The remote session will now begin.
13.	At the top of the screen, there will be a small Remote Desktop control bar.
o	The thumbtack will pin the control bar. 
	If the bar disappears, simply move the cursor to the top of the center of the screen, and it will reappear.
o	You can end your session by clicking X at the top right corner or by going to Start > Power > Disconnect.

    Error! Filename not specified.
 
" KB0015665 Remote Desktop Services Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) Gateway access for Windows "
Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) Gateway provides RDP access to on-campus Windows desktops from external networks without requiring a Virtual Private Network (VPN). Once connected, you will have access to everything your computer has installed or is permitted to access on the network. Contact your local IT group to configure your PC, to allow Remote Desktop connections.
•	Contact your IT Team and confirm that your machine and network are enabled for the RD Gateway.
•	Speak with your IT Team to learn more about any department-specific policies regarding the Remote access of University-owned equipment and resources.
•	Before you can remotely connect to your machine, you will need a NetID and Password, and either the IP Address or Machine Name of the Remote Desktop.
•	This process is only compatible with two-step users configured to use the mobile app. It is not compatible with SMS or hardware tokens.
•	Follow the instructions to setup your Two-step login and devices with DUO, or use the VPN to access your devices.
Locating Machine Name and IP Address of Remote Desktop
Collecting the Machine Name of your Remote Desktop
1.	Click on Start.

    Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click on Settings.

    Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click on System. 

    Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click About at the bottom left. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Record the Device name. 

    Error! Filename not specified.

Collecting the Machine IP Address of your Remote Desktop
1.	Click on Start.

    Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click on Settings.

    Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click on Network & Internet.

    Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click on Ethernet (Wired) or Wi-Fi (Wireless).

    Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Click on the listed connection.

    Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Scroll down to Properties and record the IPv4 Address.

    Error! Filename not specified.
Setting up the Remote Desktop Connection (Windows)
1.	Open the Remote Desktop Connection app on your machine.
o	You can do this by searching for the Remote Desktop Connection in the start menu.  
1.	Click on Start.
2.	Search for "mstsc" or "Remote Desktop".
3.	Click on the Remote Desktop Connection app.
o	Alternatively, search for and launch Run. Then, enter: %windir%\system32\mstsc.exe

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click on Show Options.

    Error! Filename not specified.
3.	In the General Tab:
1.	In the Computer field, enter your Computer Name or IP Address. 
	If you do not have this information refer to the above instructions or contact your local IT Team.
2.	Enter rad\netid into the User name field.
	Replace NetID with your personal NetID (must be all lowercase). 
	Ensure you use a backslash in rad\netid and not a forward slash. 
	The backslash (\) key is located above the Enter key and below the Backspace key.
	If your desired/target machine is not on the RAD domain and has other credentials, use those here.  
	The format would be: DOMAIN\username
	If you are unsure of the domain, contact your local IT Team.

    Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click on the Advanced Tab.
5.	In the Connect from anywhere section, click on Settings…

      Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Select Use these RD Gateway server settings.
1.	Enter rdgateway.rutgers.edu in the Server Name field.
2.	Uncheck Bypass RD Gateway server for local addresses.
3.	Click OK.

    Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Click on Connect at the bottom of the window.

      Error! Filename not specified.
8.	The RD Gateway Server Credentials pop-up will prompt you for a username and password.
o	Enter rad\netid into the User name field.
	Replace NetID with your personal NetID (must be all lowercase). 
	Ensure you use a backslash in rad\netid and not a forward slash. 
	The backslash (\) key is located above the Enter key and below the Backspace key.
	Do this (enter rad\netid) even if your local machine does not use RAD.

    Error! Filename not specified.
9.	When connecting, you will receive a DUO Prompt on your configured device. Approve the Duo authentication request. 
o	You have 60 seconds to approve the DUO Login Request, or the session will timeout. 
	If that happens, simply go back to step 8.
10.	Next, you will be prompted for the local machine credentials. Enter the password for the computer you are connecting to.  
o	The username was entered in step 4.

      Error! Filename not specified.
11.	A security certificate warning will appear. Click Yes to approve. 
o	You can check the Don’t ask me again for connection to this computer option to avoid this prompt on future connections to this machine.

      Error! Filename not specified.
12.	The remote session will now begin.
13.	At the top of the screen there will be a thin remote desktop control bar.
o	The Thumbtack icon will pin the control bar. If the bar disappears, simply move the cursor to the top of center of the screen and it will reappear.
o	You can end your session by clicking the X at the top right corner or by going to Start > Power > Disconnect within the remote desktop window.

    Error! Filename not specified.
 
" KB0015666 Remote Desktop Services Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) Gateway access: Accessing Windows devices on MacOS "
Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) Gateway provides RDP access to on-campus Windows desktops from external networks without requiring a Virtual Private Network (VPN). Once connected, you will have access to everything your computer has installed or can access on the network. Contact your local IT group to configure your PC to allow Remote Desktop connections.
•	Contact your IT Team and confirm that your machine and network are enabled for the RD Gateway.
•	Speak with your IT Team to learn more about any department specific policies regarding the Remote access of University Owned Equipment, and resources.
•	Before you can remotely connect to your machine you will need a NetID and Password, and either the IP Address or Machine Name of the Remote Desktop.
•	This process is only compatible with two-step users configured to use the mobile app or a phone number. It is not compatible with SMS or hardware tokens.
•	Follow the instructions to setup your Two-step login and devices with DUO, or use the VPN to access your devices.
Locating Machine Name and IP Address of Remote Desktop
Collecting the Machine Name of your Remote Desktop
1.	Click on Start.
2.	Click Settings > System. 
3.	Click on About, on the bottom left. 
4.	Record the Device Name. 

    Error! Filename not specified.

Collecting the Machine IP Address of your Remote Desktop
1.	Click on Start.
2.	Click on Settings > Network & Internet.
3.	Click on Ethernet (Wired) or Wi-Fi (Wireless).
4.	Click on the listed Connection.
5.	Scroll down to Properties and record the IPv4 Address.

    Error! Filename not specified.
Setting up the Remote Desktop Connection (Mac)
1.	To use the Remote Desktop Gateway, you must install the Mac Version of the Remote Desktop Gateway (now called Windows App) from the App Store. 
2.	Launch the Microsoft Remote Desktop App by clicking the Icon on the Dock or from the Launchpad
3.	Click on Add PC or the + in the top left and choose Add PC from the dropdown. 
4.	The Add PC Screen will appear. 

    Error! Filename not specified.
5.	In PC Name enter the Machine Name or IP address of the remote desktop collected in the previous section.
6.	In User Account click on Ask when required and select Add User Account…
1.	If you do not use your NetID to log in on the Remote desktop, use your other credentials here or leave the User Account Field as Ask when Required.
2.	In Username enter rad\NetID
	Replace NetID with your personal NetID (must be all lowercase). 
	Ensure you use a backslash in rad\NetID and not a forward slash.
	If your desired/target machine is not on the RAD domain and has other credentials, use those here.
	The format would be: DOMAIN\username
	If you are unsure of the domain, contact your local IT Team.
3.	In Password enter your NetID Password. 
	If you do not use your NetID to log in on the Remote desktop, use the password you would use to log into the PC. 
4.	In Friendly Name, you can enter a name that the saved credentials will appear for in the dropdown list for future use. 
	Example: "Jane's Desktop Rm 108"
5.	Click on Add to return to the Add PC Screen.

     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Back on the Add PC screen, under the Gateway section, click on No Gateway and select Add Gateway…
1.	In Gateway name enter rdgateway.rutgers.edu
2.	In Friendly name you can enter a name that the Gateway will appear as in the list of saved gateways for future use.
3.	In User account, if you already saved your NetID credentials, select them from the dropdown. Otherwise, click on Add User Account… and repeat step 6 using your NetID.
4.	Click on Add to return to the Add PC Screen. 

    Error! Filename not specified.
8.	Under the Gateway section, uncheck Bypass for local addresses.

    Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Click Save to save the PC to your Remote Desktop Connections list.
10.	To launch a remote desktop session, double-click on the computer name icon on the remote desktop app's main screen. 

    Error! Filename not specified.
11.	When connecting, you will receive a DUO Prompt on your configured device. Approve the Duo authentication request. 
o	You have 60 seconds to approve the DUO Login Request, or the session will timeout. If that happens, simply go back to step 10.
12.	When connecting for the first time, you may receive a certificate warning.  
1.	You can add the certificate to your trusted list by clicking on Show Certificate.

    Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Check the box next to Always Trust… and click on Continue. 

    Error! Filename not specified.
13.	The Remote session can be exited by clicking on the red X in the top left or by clicking on the words Microsoft Remote Desktop and navigating the menu to Quit Remote Desktop.

    Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0012481 ResNet Support "Connect your smart devices, streaming devices, gaming consoles, and desktops" "
Table of Contents
•	Wireless Devices 
o	Important information for the RUatHome network
o	Connecting your wireless devices
o	Disconnecting your wireless devices
o	Resetting your Passphrase 
•	Wired Devices 
•	Troubleshooting issues
•	Supported devices
To connect your laptop, phone, or tablet to the wireless network for use across all Rutgers buildings, reference the instructions on how to connect to RUWireless Secure. 
Game consoles, smart TVs, streaming devices, some smart devices, and wired (Ethernet) desktops can be connected to the Rutgers Residential Network (ResNet), which is available only in the residence halls.
Anyone connecting to the Rutgers Network must follow the Rutgers Acceptable Use Policy for Computing and Information Technology Resources [PDF]. If you are caught violating this policy, your connection may be terminated without warning.
Wireless Devices
To connect devices wirelessly, such as Google Home, Amazon Echo, gaming consoles, smart devices, etc, you will need to generate your own unique Passphrase, which is your password to use on the Wireless network SSID: RUatHome
Important information for the RUatHome network
•	Each student has their own unique Passphrase (password) to add devices to the network. Do not share your password with others. 
•	In some instances, devices from the same brand, such as Apple or Android products, may automatically share wireless network passwords with your other devices, like a watch or tablet. Those devices may automatically connect to the network. You should check your connected devices and have them disconnect from the RUatHome network. 
•	The RUatHome network is only available to students in residence halls. It is not accessible by faculty/staff, and it is not available in other University buildings. 
o	The exception is faculty and staff living in On-Campus housing.
•	Some devices may require your phone to be on the same network as your device to complete the setup process or change device settings. In this case, you will have to add your phone to the RUatHome network as well. Phones should only be on the RUatHome network to assist with configuring your smart device. Once you are done configuring your device, you should promptly "Forget" the RUatHome network and connect to RUWireless Secure. This will ensure your phone maintains a wireless connection in all Rutgers buildings.  
Connecting your wireless devices
1.	Go to the Passphrase Portal. 
2.	Log in with your NetID and NetID password if you are not automatically logged in. 
3.	For devices with a camera, you can scan the QR code to automatically connect. 
4.	For other devices, note the password in the Passphrase field.  
o	These are valid for 1 year. You will automatically get an email as the expiration date approaches, prompting you to renew the key for an additional year. 

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	On your device, navigate to the wireless network settings. 
6.	Select the RUatHome network, which is only available in the residence halls. 
7.	Enter the Passphrase from step 4 as the network password. 
Disconnecting your wireless devices
•	To temporarily disconnect a device, you can power it off to ensure it no longer has an active wireless connection or go into the device's wireless network settings and choose to "Disconnect" from the network. 
•	To permanently disconnect a device, go into the device's wireless network settings and choose to "Forget" the network. You can always enter your Passphrase again if you want to reconnect it. 
Resetting your Passphrase 
You have the option to generate a new Passphrase. This should only be done in the rare event you need to, or are instructed to do so by the OIT Help Desk, as a step in troubleshooting any potential issues. 
1.	Go to the Passphrase Portal. 
2.	Log in with your NetID and NetID password if you are not automatically logged in. 
3.	Click on Generate New PassPhrase. 
4.	You'll receive a confirmation message that your current one will expire in 24 hours. Click Yes. 
5.	Your password will be updated and shown in the Passphrase field. 
6.	This also resets the expiration date of it to 359 days. 
7.	You will need to update any device using the old Passphrase. 
Devices still using the old Passphrase will remain connected for 24 hours after generating a new Passphrase.
Wired Devices 
For devices connecting to a Network port via an Ethernet cord, follow the instructions on connecting Wired devices to ResNet. 
Troubleshooting issues
•	The RUatHome network is only available in the residence halls. If you are not in a residence hall, you will not see RUatHome as a network you can join. 
•	RUatHome is only for use by active students, with the exception of faculty and staff living in On-Campus housing. If you do not fall into one of these categories, you will be unable to access the Passphrase portal. If you believe you qualify and can not access the portal, contact your local OIT Help Desk. 
•	Error messages:  
o	Incorrect Password for "RUatHome": Confirm that you entered your Passphrase correctly by logging into the Passphrase Portal and looking in the Passphrase field. 
•	For further assistance, contact your local IT Help Desk. 
Supported devices
The following is a list of devices that have been tested on the residential network. This is a live list, as testing is done continually and is subject to change. RUatHome only supports 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz devices. 
Supported in Residence Halls	Approved in Residential Halls, Connection Not Guaranteed	Prohibited in Residence Halls
•	Xbox
•	PlayStation
•	Nintendo Switch
•	Roku
•	Android TV
•	Amazon Fire TV
•	Google Home
•	Amazon Echo	•	Smart Bulbs
•	Smart Outlet
•	Scales	•	Networked Printers
•	Routers
•	Video Doorbells
•	Security Cameras
" KB0018798 ResNet Support Connecting Wired devices to ResNet "
To connect devices over WiFi in the residence hall, follow the instructions on how to connect your smart devices, streaming devices, and gaming consoles.
To connect a wired device through an Ethernet cord, follow the instructions below. 
For wired devices, you will have to submit a request to get your device connected. Please note that if you previously registered your device last year, you will not need to complete this form to reconnect it. Connecting via this method is only supported in the residence halls. 
Requirements
•	You must have an Ethernet cord connecting your device to the black or grey network port in your dorm/suite. If your device does not have an Ethernet port, you may purchase an adapter to use for a wired connection and use the MAC Address of the adapter when submitting your request.
•	Prior to submitting the form, ensure you have connected the device to the network port using an Ethernet cord and powered on your device.  
o	If requesting multiple devices, leave each device on and connected to the port for at least 30 seconds before connecting the next device.
•	Know the Wired MAC Address of your device. Note that a device that supports both wireless and wired network connections will have a different MAC Address for each. Ensure you use the wired MAC Address on the form. Otherwise, your request will not be processed, and you will experience a delay in establishing a Wired connection. 
•	If you need to connect multiple wired devices simultaneously and your residence lacks sufficient ports, you can use an Unmanaged Switch to expand the number of available ports. 
Submitting a request
1.	Find the Wired MAC Address of your device. 
2.	Log in to the Rutgers IT Help Portal and complete the EI - Wired ResNet Device Bypass form. 
3.	After submitting the form, your request will be reviewed. 
4.	You will receive an email once your request is processed, indicating whether or not your device was successfully added.  
o	Note: this is not an immediate process. 
5.	If it is a Windows device, you will need to disable the Wired Autoconfig service for it to connect properly. 
Supported devices
The following is a list of devices that have been tested on the residential network. This is a live list, as testing is done continually and is subject to change. 
Supported in Residence Halls	Prohibited in Residence Halls
•	Xbox
•	PlayStation
•	Desktops
•	Roku	•	Networked Printers
•	Routers
•	Video Doorbells
•	Security Cameras
How to locate your MAC Address
Locating a device's MAC address is dependent on its manufacturer. Below is a list of commonly used devices and instructions on locating the MAC address. 
•	
o	Windows
o	Mac
o	PlayStation
o	Xbox One
o	Xbox Series X or Series S
o	Switch
o	Apple TV
o	Android TV
o	Roku
o	Amazon Echo
o	Google Home
o	Google Home Mini
Windows
1.	Open the Windows start menu, then type cmd in the search bar.
2.	Press Enter to open Command Prompt.
3.	Type ipconfig/all
4.	Press Enter.
5.	Under the Ethernet adapter section. The Physical Address is the MAC address.
Mac
1.	Go to the Apple menu > System Preferences > Network.
2.	Make sure that the Ethernet interface is selected on the left side.
3.	Click on Advanced on the right, and then the Hardware tab. 
PlayStation
1.	Power on without a disc in the system.
2.	On the main menu navigate to Settings.
3.	Click on Network.
4.	Navigate to View Connection Status.
5.	You will see the Wireless Mac Address and the Wired Mac Address.
Xbox One
1.	Go to My Xbox in the dashboard and select Settings.
2.	Select Network.
3.	Select Advanced Settings from the Network Settings tab.
4.	At the bottom of this screen, you'll see a heading for Wired MAC and Wireless MAC. 
Xbox Series X or Series S
1.	Navigate to the Settings page.
2.	Select Network.
3.	Select Advanced Settings.
4.	Under IP settings, the MAC address will be listed next to Wired MAC and Wireless MAC on the right-hand side of the screen.
Switch
1.	Select System Settings from the HOME Menu.
2.	Scroll down through the menu and select Internet.
3.	The Nintendo Switch console's MAC address will be listed under System MAC Address.
Apple TV
1.	Go to Settings.
2.	Then select General.
3.	Click Network.
4.	The mac address will be listed as Ethernet Address.
Android TV
1.	Go to Settings > Network > Status. The mac address will be listed.
Roku
1.	The mac address is printed on the bottom or back of the Roku player.
2.	Alternatively, from the Roku home screen, select Settings > About. The mac address will be displayed.
Amazon Echo
1.	Download the Amazon Alexa app to your phone and sign in with your Amazon account.
2.	Connect to the wireless network transmitted by your Echo device.
3.	The wireless MAC address for your Echo can be found at the bottom of the Echo Setup screen in the Alexa app.
Google Home
1.	Turn on your Google Home.
2.	Open the Google Home app on your tablet or smartphone.
3.	Choose the Google Home from the list of available devices nearby and tap on Set Up.
4.	Allow your device to connect to your Google Home.
5.	Type in the Google Home location and tap on Continue.
6.	The wireless MAC address is in the bottom right of your device’s screen.
Google Home Mini
1.	Turn on the Google Home Mini.
2.	Open the Google Home App on your tablet or phone.
3.	Choose the Google Home Mini from the list of nearby devices and select Set Up.
4.	When asked about your Wi-Fi info, tap on the three dots in the top right corner of your screen.
5.	The MAC address of your Google Home Mini should be in the window that pops up.
" KB0013685 ResNet Support Getting your computer connected to ResNet in the residence halls "
The Rutgers University Office of Information Technology provides connections in residence halls. 
Students using computers in their rooms, connected to the Rutgers Network, must follow the ResNet Network rules regarding computer usage. If caught violating any of the rules, your connection may be terminated without warning.
How to connect to the network
Laptops should be set up to use RUWireless Secure. 
To gain access to the network with an Ethernet (wired) connection, follow the instructions on connecting your wired device. 
Configuring your operating system to obtain an IP automatically (DHCP)
Most devices will automatically use DHCP to obtain an IP address. If yours does not, follow the instructions below based on your operating system:
Windows
1.	Click on the Search Windows bar > search Control Panel. 
1.	At the top right where it says View by, if it says Category, change it to Small Icons or Large icons. This will show more options. 
2.	Click the Network and Sharing Center.
3.	Click the link for Local Area Connection.
4.	Click on Properties.
5.	Uncheck the box for Internet Protocol Version 6 (TCP/IPv6).
6.	Double-click on Internet Protocol Version 4 (TCP/IPv4).
7.	Select or check that the radio buttons for Obtain an IP address automatically and Obtain DNS server address automatically.
8.	Click OK to save the changes and close the window. Click OK to close the Properties window. Click Close in the Local Area Connection Status window.
MacOS
1.	From the Apple menu, select System Preferences. Select Network (Under Internet and Network). NOTE: Authentication may be required via the lock icon in the lower left corner.
2.	Select Ethernet on the left menu.
3.	Set Configure on the right screen to Using DHCP.
4.	Click the Apply Now button, then quit the System Preferences application.
" KB0016534 ResNet Support Reconnect devices previously connected to the RUIOT network "
If you are a student in the residence halls, previously registered a device using the ResNet Device Registration portal, and had connected to the RUIOT network in the past, you will need to reconnect your device to the RUatHome network. Moving forward, the RUIOT network is only accessible to departments for devices related to business at the University. 
For detailed instructions, visit the article on connecting your smart devices, streaming devices, gaming consoles, and wired desktops.
If you encounter any trouble connecting your registered devices, please make sure you are connected to the RUatHome network and not the previous RUIOT network.
If you are unable to connect your device, contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0013736 ResNet Support ResNet FAQ: Antivirus software and spyware "
My computer is infected with a virus. Why was my network connection shut off?
The OIT Acceptable Use Policy states that ResNet has the right to remove any machines deemed a threat from the network. Many viruses, "worms," and "Trojan horses" are designed to infect other computers they can find on the network. Computers identified as being infected with a virus will be disconnected from the network to protect others' computers from becoming infected. Please consider this as a protective measure and not as disciplinary action against you.
Where can I get anti-virus software?
Visit our Antivirus software page for more information. 
My computer is infected with a virus. What antivirus software should I use?
You can use any antivirus software you wish to keep your computer virus-free. Once your computer is disconnected due to a virus infection, you must either update your existing antivirus software or install the programs as recommended in the browsing best practices page above and eliminate the problem before your network connection is restored. You may also reimage or reformat your hard drive to remediate the problem.
Why does my web browser sometimes go to sites that I do not want it to go to?
You may have any of a variety of programs running invisibly. To remedy this situation, you must scan your computer for malicious software that may have been installed without your knowledge. We recommend programs like AdwCleaner and Malwarebytes to protect your machines from spyware.
Why does my internet/computer seem slower than usual?
Since spyware runs in the background of an operating system, it will still use some system resources. If a computer has enough spyware, there may be a noticeable slowdown in Internet speed, general computing speed, or both. Programs such as AdwCleaner or Malwarebytes can be used to help address this problem.
Why do I get popups when my computer is not attended?
Popups are most commonly seen when surfing the web but may also occur even when you are not at your computer. Pop-ups are typically caused by adware. Adware differs from spyware because adware is software that may have been installed on your computer by a remote site. Many free utilities that you download from the Internet will install hidden software that sends details of the websites you visit and other information from your computer (which can include your email address) to advertisers so they can target you with popup ads and spam. The easiest way to ensure your computer is clean from adware is to use AdwCleaner and Malwarebytes.
" KB0013735 ResNet Support ResNet network rules "
Students using computers in their rooms connected to the Rutgers Network must follow rules regarding computer usage. If caught violating any of the rules, your connection may be terminated without warning.
Rutgers Acceptable Use Policy for Computing and Information Technology Resources [PDF]
To ensure high-quality infrastructure for your academic purposes and consistent with the OIT Acceptable Use Policy, you must protect the access and integrity of your personal devices connected to the Rutgers Network, including but not limited to LANs behind personal routers and PCs running any operating system. The Office of Information Technology recommends that residents follow the best browsing practices outlined in the Antivirus section of the Rutgers IT website.
For more details regarding computer security, visit the Information Security site for tips and suggestions on how to keep your computer and information safe.
Below is a list of things NOT allowed on computers in the Residence Hall Network.
•	FTP servers containing copyrighted material (Software, MP3 Files, etc)
•	Excessive amounts of data, either inbound or outbound.
•	Web servers containing commercial content or used for commercial purposes.
•	Mail Servers: you cannot run a mail server on your computer.
•	Providing Network connections to ANYONE else. If your roommate wants a connection, they can get their own. It is perfectly OK to allow someone else to use your computer, you just cannot extend the Network to other people.
•	Ping attacks on other computers.
•	Servers and/or programs that end up using a lot of bandwidth.
•	Attempting to access computers on which you do not have accounts.
•	Registering your TCP/IP address with outside Domain Name Services.
•	Running ‘Bots’ (Robots) of any kind doing anything to other computers, especially IRC bots.
Router Use
Personal wireless routers are not allowed in Residence Halls. Unmanaged switches can be used in cases where you want numerous wired connections. Please contact the OIT Help Desk with any questions or if you believe your Residence Hall may not have full wireless coverage.
" KB0016540 ResNet Support ResNet Pop Up Help Desk for Move-In "
During Move-In, Pop Up Help Desk teams will be available in first-year student residence halls to facilitate a quick, efficient connection to the residence hall computer network. Most students will not experience difficulty with this process. However, should you experience problems, we strongly recommend that you speak with a Pop Up Help Desk representative while the teams are present in your residence hall. 
Please bring Ethernet cables to connect to the wired connection in your residence hall room and USB cables to connect to your printers. Wireless is available in all of the residence halls. Please visit kite+key, the Rutgers Tech Store, if you require any accessories.
The OIT Help Desk can also assist, but due to the large influx of students, expected phone wait times will be longer for the first several weeks of the semester. Please come to the nearest location to find a Pop Up team member.
Common Issues
Forgot your NetID password? If you set up your security questions, you can reset it at netid.rutgers.edu.
Need help connecting your laptop to Wi-Fi? Follow the instructions on how to set up RUWireless Secure. 
Need help connecting your smart devices, streaming devices, gaming consoles, and wired desktops? Follow the instructions on how to register your devices. 
Fall 2025 ResNet Pop-Up Help Desk Hours and Locations
Monday, 8/25/2025
•	Busch 
o	BEST Courtyard: 11 am - 5 pm
•	College Avenue 
o	Honors College: 11 am - 5 pm
o	Frelinghuysen: 11 am - 5 pm
•	Cook/Douglass 
o	New Gibbons: 11 am - 5 pm
o	Outside Nichols: 11 am - 1 pm
o	Woodbury Lounge: 11 am - 5 pm
o	Jameson Courtyard: 11 am - 1 pm
•	Livingston 
o	Outside Tillett: 11 am - 5 pm
Tuesday, 8/26/2025
•	Busch 
o	Outside Barr/Allen/Metzger/Mattia: 11 am - 5 pm
•	College Avenue 
o	Outside Tinsley Hall: 11 am - 5 pm
•	Cook/Douglass 
o	Outside Perry/Voorhees: 11 am - 5 pm
o	Katzenbach: 11 am - 5 pm
o	Lippencott: 11 am - 5 pm
•	Livingston 
o	Outside Tillett Hall: 11 am - 5 pm
Wednesday, 8/27/2025
•	Busch 
o	ARC Computer Lab and dorm walk-throughs, 10 am - 1 pm
•	College Avenue 
o	Outside Tinsley Hall: 10 am - 1 pm
•	Cook/Douglass 
o	Loree Computer Lab and dorm walk-throughs, 10 am - 1 pm
•	Livingston 
o	Outside Tillett Hall: 10 am - 1 pm
" KB0013734 ResNet Support ResNet Wired & Wireless Setup "
Table of Contents
•	How do I get connected to the wired network?
•	Where can I purchase networking cables?
•	There are more residents assigned to my room than there are available Ethernet ports. How can everyone connect to the Internet?
•	Can I connect more than one device to the wired network in my room?
•	How do I set up my console gaming system on the network?
•	I got a new computer or device. What do I need to do to get connected?
•	Can I connect more than one device to the wireless network in my room?
•	Can I set up my printer in my room?
•	Can I set up my own wireless network or wireless access point in my residence hall?
•	Are there any devices that will not work on RUWireless Secure?
 
How do I get connected to the wired network?
Plug one end of your Ethernet cable into the Ethernet port on your computer. Plug the other end into the Ethernet jack in the wall. The jack is usually black, and the faceplate is labeled with a number and the letter "D". Follow the instructions on connecting Wired devices to ResNet. 
Where can I purchase networking cables?
Ethernet cables are available to Camden, Newark, and New Brunswick students at the kite+key Rutgers tech stores, and local electronics stores.
There are more residents assigned to my room than there are available Ethernet ports. How can everyone connect to the Internet?
In most cases, there is one Ethernet port available in each dorm/suite. You can obtain and use an Unmanaged Switch to connect multiple devices. 
Can I connect more than one device to the wired network in my room?
Although you can only connect one device per port to the wired network at a time, there is no restriction on the total number of network devices in a room. Residents who want to use more wired devices than there are ports would be required to disconnect the current device and then connect the new device to the same Ethernet port. You would still have to follow the instructions on connecting Wired devices to ResNet. 
If you need to have multiple wired devices connected simultaneously and you do not have enough ports in your residence, you may use an Unmanaged Switch to expand the number of available ports. 
Wireless routers are not permitted in residence halls, as they interfere with RUWireless.
How do I set up my console gaming system on the network?
If you wish to use a console on the network, you can connect wirelessly or through a wired connection. Follow the instructions on connecting your smart devices, streaming devices, gaming consoles, and desktops. 
I got a new computer or device. What do I need to do to get connected?
For laptops, phones, and tablets, please refer to the instructions on how to connect to RUWireless Secure. For all wired desktops and smart devices, follow the instructions on connecting your smart devices, streaming devices, gaming consoles, and desktops. 
Can I connect more than one device to the wireless network in my room?
There is no limit to the number of wireless devices you can connect to RUWireless Secure or RUatHome at a time.
Can I set up my printer in my room?
Wireless and wired capabilities of personal printers are not supported, but you can still connect with a USB cable to print.
Can I set up my own wireless network or wireless access point in my residence hall?
All Rutgers residence halls offer full RUWireless coverage. As a result, ResNet does not support the wireless feature for personal routers, as it interferes with the RUWireless signal for other residents. If you are unable to connect to RUWireless in your room due to poor coverage or believe RUWireless does not cover your residence hall, get in touch with your local OIT Help Desk for assistance.
Are there any devices that will not work on RUWireless Secure?
If your device does not support the RUWireless Secure installer, you may connect it to the RUatHome wireless network or configure it for a wired connection. These devices include wired desktops, game consoles, handheld game consoles, smart TVs, and smart assistants. Follow the instructions on connecting your smart devices, streaming devices, gaming consoles, and desktops.  
Please note that some devices may experience reduced functionality on the Rutgers wireless network compared to your home wireless network. Some wireless devices that support 2.4 GHz only may not be able to connect; it is recommended to use a wireless device capable of 5 GHz. 
Additionally, some devices are not supported on our residential wireless networks in any capacity. These devices include:
•	Google Chromecast
•	Certain Smart Plugs & Lights
•	Network Printers
" KB0013684 ResNet Support ResNet wired setup – 180 West Market Street "
How do I get connected to the wired network?
Follow the instructions in the wired section of the article on connecting Wired devices to ResNet.
Can I connect more than one device to the wired network in my room?
Although you can only connect one device per port to the wired network at a time, you can use an Unmanaged Switch to increase the number of ports available to you. Residents with more wired devices than there are ports may disconnect the current device and then connect the new device to the same Ethernet port.
How do I set up my console gaming system on the network?
If you wish to use a console on the network, follow the instructions on connecting your smart devices, streaming devices, gaming consoles, and desktops.
I got a new computer or device. What do I need to do to get connected?
To register a new device, follow the instructions on connecting your smart devices, streaming devices, gaming consoles, and desktops.
Can I use a personal router in my apartment?
Personal routers are not permitted in 180 West Market Street.
 
" KB0014534 ResNet Support TV service at Rutgers "
Rutgers is making significant updates to the television services provided on campus. In response to the evolving media landscape and your changing viewing habits, we have phased out traditional cable television service. This change will affect both residential areas, including rooms and apartments, as well as public spaces throughout the university. 
Traditional cable television service is discontinued in all on-campus residence hall rooms, apartments, and community lounge spaces. This decision comes as a direct response to your preferences and habits. 
Your feedback over the years has informed a significant shift towards online streaming content. Platforms like YouTube, Netflix, and others are not just your choices, they are part of your daily life. These streaming services offer more flexibility and variety, over traditional cable connections. This trend is evident in the increased use of our campus Wi-Fi system for accessing content, signaling a departure from coaxial cable. 
It’s important to us that all our students enjoy a wide range of media content without financial barriers. To this end, we put together a comprehensive guide to various streaming services that offer either free content or attractive student discounts. 
These options are tailored for use on personal devices within our residential buildings, ensuring that you can easily access your favorite shows and movies right from your dorm room or apartment. To make use of these plans, all you need is to show proof of your current enrollment at Rutgers. 
Learn more about the available streaming plans and how to take advantage of these student discounts.
" KB0014536 ResNet Support What Devices are Allowed on the Rutgers Residential Network? "
The following is a list of devices that have been tested on the residential network. This is a live list, as testing is done continually and is subject to change. 
Supported in Residence Halls	Approved in Residential Halls, Connection Not Guaranteed	Prohibited in Residence Halls
•	Xbox One (Wired, Wireless)
•	Xbox X (Wired, Wireless)
•	PS4 (Wired, Wireless)
•	PS5 (Wired, Wireless)
•	Nintendo Switch (Wireless)
•	Roku/Roku Express (Wired, Wireless)
•	Android TV (Wireless)
•	Amazon Echo Devices (Wireless)
•	Amazon Fire TV (Wireless)
•	Google Home (Wireless)	•	Smart Bulbs (Wireless)
•	Smart Outlet (Wireless)
•	Love Lamps (Wireless)
•	Scales (Wireless)	•	Networked Printers
•	Routers
•	Video Doorbells
•	Security Cameras
" KB0014467 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) Administering OUs and Migrating Workstations to RAD "
Table of Contents
•	Creating Organizational Units (OU)
•	Creating Computer Accounts in AD
•	Creating Groups
•	Adding Members to Groups
•	Creating Additional Group Policies
•	Migrating your workstation to the RAD domain
Creating Organizational Units (OU)
Once onboarded with an ADM / Elevated Account, you may require additional OUs to better suit your department’s needs. Here are the steps to create additional OU’s within your initial OU setup.
1.	Launch Active Directory Users and Computers.
2.	Locate your department OU located under rad.rutgers.edu/Delegated/YOUR DEPT OU

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Right-click your OU and choose New > Organizational Unit.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Name it accordingly. Check the Protect container from Accidental Deletion box and click OK.

Error! Filename not specified.
Creating Computer Accounts in AD
Before migrating a machine to RAD, the PC object with the corresponding name must exist within the proper OU. Additionally, the -adm account that creates the PC object must join the PC object to RAD, as per Microsoft KB5020276—Netjoin: Domain Join Hardening Changes.
1.	Launch Active Directory Users and Computers.
2.	Locate your department OU or the OU within your department where you want to add it. Should be located under rad.rutgers.edu/Delegated/YOUR DEPT OU

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Right-click on the OU and choose New > Computer.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Under New Object- Computer, add the appropriate Computer name, click OK, and you are ready to migrate the computer.

Error! Filename not specified.
Creating Groups
Now that you have your ADM / Elevated Accounts, you may require additional Groups and will need to add members to the new group you will create.
1.	Launch Active Directory Users and Computers.
2.	Locate your department OU or the OU within your department where you want to add the group. Should be located under rad.rutgers.edu/Delegated/YOUR DEPT OU.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Right click on the OU and choose New > Group.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Name the Group based on the naming convention found in RAD Naming Conventions.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Leave Group Scope and Group Type with default settings and click OK.
Adding Members to Groups
You will need to add members to the new group you will create. If you are already in the OU where the group is, then proceed with the following steps. If not, then launch ADUC and locate the OU and Group.
1.	Right-click on the Group that you want to add Members to and choose Properties.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click on the Members tab > Add...

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Choose the users and/or groups you want to add within this group.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click OK, and that will bring you back to the Members tab.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Click OK again, this will close out the Group Properties window, and the users and groups will be added.
Creating Additional Group Policies
EI applies certain default polices to every OU, but you may require additional GP’s to fulfill your security and mapping needs.
1.	Launch Group Policy Management and locate the OU that you manage.
2.	Right-click on the OU and select Create a GPO in this Domain, and Link it here…

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Name the Group Policy accordingly and click OK.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	In the Scope tab, under Security Filtering, remove Authenticated Users and add the appropriate group the GPO would apply to and click OK.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	In the Delegation Tab, click Add, add Authenticated Users with Read permissions and select OK.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	In the Delegation Tab, click Add, add your Delegated OU’s OU Admin group with Edit Settings, delete, modify security permissions, and select OK. This will ensure other OU admins are able to view the GP.

Error! Filename not specified.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Right-click the GPO you just created and choose Edit. The Group Policy Management Editor will pop up.

Error! Filename not specified.

Error! Filename not specified.
8.	Here, choose the policies you require, either Computer or User based.
9.	Once completed, close Group Policy Management Editor and close Group Policy Management.
Migrating your workstation to the RAD domain
Before you begin, you must understand and verify the following:
•	The workstation OS must be at least Windows 7 or higher.
•	Enterprise KACE will be installed on each workstation via Group Policy.
o	KACE can be managed by your Admins or KACE can be managed by OIT.
•	Have the Local Administrator account of your workstation on hand.
o	This is required when you unjoin your workstation in the steps below.
•	The PC object must exist in the correct OU before migrating the PC, and the PC name must match the PC name in AD.
•	The -adm account that creates the PC object needs to join the PC object to RAD
1.	Click on Start > Control Panel > System and Security > System.
2.	On the right-hand side under "Computer name, domains and workgroup settings," click on Change Settings.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	In System Properties, click Change… and change the computer name to the RAD-specified computer name and add the computer to the workgroup.
4.	Reboot and log in as the local admin account.
5.	Repeat Steps 3 and 4.
6.	Click Change and add the workstation to RAD.RUTGERS.EDU.
7.	Reboot and log in with your RAD account.
8.	Confirm that DNS is pointing to 128.6.1.1.
If you have any questions or concerns, please email rad-support@oit.rutgers.edu.
" KB0014512 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) Azure Hybrid Join configuration profile "
Hybrid Azure AD Join has been implemented with Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) and is available for use. A device is said to be hybrid joined if it has both an AD object and an Azure AD (AAD) object, which allows users of that device to sign in with a RAD user account.
With Hybrid Joins the university can now leverage:
•	Device Based licensing for Office 365
o	This allows Office to be tied to the Device rather than the User, making it ideal for enterprise or shared devices.
•	Reduced logins due to the device being assign both RAD and Azure authentication tokens
A device in Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) can end up in a hybrid joined state one of two ways:
•	If the computer is already joined to RAD.
•	The computer was built using Rutgers Autopilot, which allows for hybrid-joining via configuration profiles.
A hybrid joined computer is joined to both AD and AAD, but the AD join is primary because the device initially uses AD authentication. Only Windows devices can be hybrid joined.
Azure Hybrid Join Configuration Profile
AD Join from Azure Configuration Profile. NOTE: This is NOT required if the device is already part of RAD. It is only required for new deployments or Azure Only Joined devices.
1.	Log in to Microsoft Endpoint, then click on Devices. Under the Policy heading, click Configuration Profiles.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click Create Profile, select Windows 10 and Later as the Platform and Templates as the Type.


Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Find Domain Join in the list and click Create.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Name your Configuration and click Next.

Error! Filename not specified. 
5.	Here we will specify the prefix for the system, domain, and OU for it to be placed in.
1.	The Computer Name Prefix can be 12 characters long, allowing Azure to randomly assign the last 3 characters to be unique. This prevents us from pre-populating computer names in RAD.
2.	Enter the Domain you wish to join.
3.	Add the FQDN of the OU where you wish for the devices to be added.
4.	Click Next.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	You will then need to set the Scope Tag for your department and assign the Configuration to a group of devices for assignment.
7.	The Intune Connector will create the Computer Object and join the device on your behalf.
8.	Devices that are decommissioned or re-imaged will need to be reset and manually removed from AD.
" KB0014470 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) Connecting to AD via LDAP in Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) "
Request a Service account to bind LDAP to AD:
To submit a request, fill out the Request Service and Generic Accounts form. Select the appropriate account, follow the instructions to complete the fields, and then submit.
RAD LDAP Info
We have worked with the EI network team to create two Virtual IPs (VIPs) for Rad LDAP. This will ensure failover in the event that any DCs are offline, and fault isolation in the case of an outage at one of the EI Data centers. These VIP’s need to use a secure connection on port 636. If using RAD for LDAP, please update your settings to use the info below.
The server names are:
•	Primary = rad-ldap.rutgers.edu
•	Secondary = rad-ldap2.rutgers.edu
The Base DN is:
•	DC=rad
•	DC=Rutgers
•	DC=edu
The ports to bind is Secure Port: 636.
" KB0018806 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) Default RAD Domain Group Policies "
OIT applies the following default policies in the RAD domain. 
Table of Contents
•	Group Policy Name: Default Domain Policy
•	Group Policy Name: Delegated DDNS Client Configuration
•	Group Policy Name: Rad Password Expiration
•	Group Policy Name: “Delegated OU” Workstation Baseline Policy
•	Additional Available Policies 
o	~Rad Ise 8021x Config
o	~Rad Kace Agent-Kbox(2,3,4,5)
Group Policy Name: Default Domain Policy
Where Applied: Root of RAD Domain
Details: This policy applies to Authenticated Users and pushes down settings to ensure a secure domain login. See below for the applied settings.
Error! Filename not specified.
Error! Filename not specified.
Error! Filename not specified.
Group Policy Name: Delegated DDNS Client Configuration
Where Applied: Rad/Delegated OU
Details: This policy runs a .vbs script to configure the NIC on machines for Dynamic DNS registration within Infoblox. This ensures your RAD PC can dynamically create an entry for itself in Infoblox. See the information below.
Error! Filename not specified.
Example of before and after the script runs:
Before
Error! Filename not specified.
After
Error! Filename not specified.
Group Policy Name: Rad Password Expiration
Where Applied: Rad>Delegated OU
Details: This policy runs a .vbs script that looks at the user’s PWD expiration date.  If the logged-in user’s RAD PW is due to expire within 30 days, the user will be presented with a Windows notification prompt with the option to go right to the NetID Management page to reset their NetID password, which syncs to the RAD Domain. They will continue to receive this prompt until their RAD password has been reset and no longer falls within the 30-day expiration parameter.
Group Policy Name: “Delegated OU” Workstation Baseline Policy
Where Applied: Rad>Delegated OU>Delegated OU Name
Details: This GP will be set for each OU to push down settings intended to help OU admins manage RAD-managed machines. Some of the default settings include the following:
Restricted Groups
Used to manage membership of security groups. Allows administrators to precisely control who belongs to specific groups and to enforce group membership, which is especially useful for maintaining consistent security configurations across multiple systems.
Error! Filename not specified.
GP Loopback Merge
This needs to be set to Merge. More information can be found under Create and Edit Group Policies here:
Error! Filename not specified.
Shared Drives
There will be a group policy setting for Global Restricted (R) and Shared (S) drives mapped. More information can be found under Shared Drives:
Error! Filename not specified.
Error! Filename not specified.
Additional Available Policies
OIT manages these additional policies, which can be applied to your OU.
~Rad Ise 8021x Config
Used to enforce secure network access control for Windows clients by configuring them to authenticate using 802.1X. A port-based Network Access Control (NAC) protocol typically with Cisco Identity Services Engine (ISE) as the authentication server.
~Rad Kace Agent-Kbox(2,3,4,5)
OIT works to manage Enterprise GPs for Kace, ensuring they are always using the latest agent. You can link them to your OU depending on which Kbox appliance you use.   
" KB0014481 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) How do I access Isilon Storage from Home? "
Follow the instructions below when trying to access Isilon Storage outside of the Rutgers University campus:
1.	Connect to the Rutgers VPN.
2.	Use Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) to connect to your office desktop and access the mapped Shared Drives.
If RDP is not available, you can access RAD Shares remotely. After connecting to the appropriate VPN, you can access RAD Shares, which are housed on Isilon Storage.
•	If on RAD-bound machines, you should be able to connect by DFS link. Please contact your local IT Support to determine which DFS link you should use to access your RAD storage.
o	Example DFS Link: \\rad.rutgers.edu\dfs\RADHomeShares
•	If on Stand Alone non-Managed machines, you should be able to access the storage by SMB Path. Contact your local IT Support to determine which SMB Path you should use to access your RAD storage.
o	Example SMB Path: \\isilon-1-asb-smb.ei.rutgers.edu\home
If data is stored on OneDrive or Box, you won't need to connect to the VPN to access it.
" KB0014479 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) How do I provide access for another group to manage group members in RAD? "
1.	Right-click on the group and select Properties.
2.	Click on Security > Advanced.
Error! Filename not specified.Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Select Add > Select a principal.
Error! Filename not specified.
4.	An AD Find box will appear. Type in the name of the OU-admin group and click Check Names to ensure you have the spelling correct.
Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Click OK once the correct OU admins group has been located.
6.	On the next screen, in the Applies To field, select This Object Only in the dropdown menu.
Error! Filename not specified.
7.	This group should have the Write Members box checked so that they can start modifying the group membership. This should be checked by default after you add the group.

Error! Filename not specified.
8.	Select OK > Apply on the next screen. 
9.	Access has now been granted for the OU admins group to modify the members of this group.
" KB0014478 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) How do I provide Admin Level Access via Group Policy? "
Administrative access is provided to end users through ADM accounts. ADM accounts must exist prior to the creation of the GP. If you do not yet have one, you can request an ADM account. 
Once the ADM account is created, OU admins can use the directions below to create a Group Policy to provide administrative rights to the user’s ADM account.
1.	Find the computer in AD Users and Computers. The GPO must be created and linked to the same OU that the machine is in.
2.	Open GPMC > Navigate to the OU where the machine is located> Right-click the OU > Create a GPO in this domain and Link it here...

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Create the Group Policy using the following naming convention: "Delegated OU NetID Admin GP".
4.	Right-click the Group Policy > Edit.
5.	Navigate to Computer Configuration > Policies > Windows Settings > Security Settings > Restricted Groups.
6.	Right-click on Restricted Group.
7.	Select Add Group and enter "Administrators" and click OK. The properties tab of the Administrators group is displayed.

Error! Filename not specified.

Error! Filename not specified.Error! Filename not specified.
8.	Select Members of this group > Add. Add Groups to the Object Types.

Error! Filename not specified.Error! Filename not specified.

Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Add the following groups: 
o	RAD Admin Access
o	Delegated OU Workstation Administrators group
o	The user’s Adm account
10.	Click OK until back at the Group Policy editor window.
11.	Close the Group Policy editor, select the Group Policy > Scope tab.
12.	Remove Authenticated Users and add in the workstation that the user will have administrative rights over.

Error! Filename not specified.Error! Filename not specified.
13.	Click on the Details tab and change the GPO Status to User configuration settings disabled, and click OK.

Error! Filename not specified.Error! Filename not specified.
14.	Click on the Delegation tab, then perform the following: 
1.	Add the group "Delegated OU Admins".
2.	Add the group "Rad Group Policy Administrators".
3.	Change the default Read to Edit settings, delete, modify security for each group, and select OK.
4.	Add the "Authenticated Users" group as well and leave permissions on “Read.” 
5.	Once those groups have been added, remove yourself from the delegation list.

Error! Filename not specified.Error! Filename not specified.

Error! Filename not specified.Error! Filename not specified.
15.	Click on the OU and change the order of the group policies so the departmental group policy is at the bottom of the list. The base departmental group policy should have the highest number of all the group policies applied to this OU.

Error! Filename not specified.Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0015772 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) How do I request a TestRad-ADM account? "
Before requesting an ADM account for TestRAD.rutgers.edu
1.	Ensure you have activated your NetID in the test environment. Go to the test NetID activation page to complete this.
2.	If you have activated your NetID in the test environment and you have forgotten your password, you can reset it via the test NetID forgotten password page.
TestRAD-ADM Initial Setup
1.	Go to the test environment's Elevated Account Request page.
2.	Click on Submit an RAD Admin Request.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	You will be prompted to log in with your NetID and NetID password. 
4.	Select RAD Admin.
5.	Select the approver for your request. 
6.	Select the reason for your request. 
7.	Click on Submit Request.
8.	You'll receive a message "RAD Admin Request #'xxxxx' has been submitted successfully. You will be notified when the request is approved and processed."
9.	The approver will receive a request to approve your account. If they do not approve in 30 days, the request will cancel and you will be notified so that you may submit a new one. 
10.	Once the request has been approved, you should receive an email with further instructions to follow, such as the one below.

Error! Filename not specified.
11.	Do not use the url provided in the email. Instead, go to the test environment version of this URL: https://test-netid.rutgers.edu/loginView.htm?from=/createRADAdminAccount.htm
12.	Follow the instructions in the email to complete the process. The process for setting a password on an -adm account is outlined below. 
Set up TestRAD-ADM password
1.	Go to the create RAD-adm account page in the test environment. Log in with your regular NetID and NetID password.
2.	Set up two-factor for your TestRAD-ADM account.
3.	Set up the password for your RAD Admin Account. 
Please note: the -adm password should be different from your regular NetID password.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	You'll receive confirmation that the account was successfully set up.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0015786 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) How do I reset my TestRAD NetID Password? "
Ensure you have activated your NetID in the test environment. Go to the test NetID activation page to complete this.
1.	If you have activated your NetID in the test environment and you forgot your password, you can reset it via the test NetID forgotten password page.
2.	Enter the required information and click Continue. 

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Enter a new password and follow the Password Rules located on the right side of the webpage, then click Reset Password.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	You'll receive a confirmation message that the password reset was successful. This new password may take up to 2 minutes to come into effect.    
" KB0014477 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) How do I update my Display Name in Outlook? "
You may want to do this if your display name is not what you prefer or what you were expecting to see. This process will update your display name and reflect it on your RAD machine, email, and other relevant platforms.
Allow at least 30 minutes for these changes to apply after the request has been made.
1.	Go to the Personal Contact Information Page.
2.	Select the Directory Listing tab located at the ribbon of the page.
3.	On the Directory Listing tab, update your preferred First Name and Last Name if they differ from your legal name. 

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click Submit. 
" KB0014471 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) How to get started with RAD (Rutgers Active Directory) "
Management of your AD environment is done through delegated Organizational Units (OU) in RAD. To manage your AD environment, a request from IT Leadership within your organization is required. Delegated OUs provide a secure Windows domain environment. Delegated OUs will enable RU to remove Windows domain silos, share resources, and reduce costs, making it easier to share resources.
Requesting Delegated Organizational Units
Requests for a delegated OU can be made from the IT Leadership in your organization by submitting the RAD Data Collection form. In the request, ensure that you include the technical contacts, the department head, and the suggested OU name. Delegated OU names should be short; we will typically recommend using the Departmental Code as assigned in Cornerstone. (i.e., OIT, ORA, SAS)
It can take between a couple of days to a couple of months to join, depending on the complexity of your existing environment. We’ll help you assess whether joining is the right decision, guide you through the necessary steps to get started, and assist in establishing a timeframe to complete the work.
Also reference the RAD Naming Conventions.
" KB0014483 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) How to request and setup a RAD ADM account "
Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) utilizes Active Directory Management (ADM) accounts to grant elevated rights for modifying objects within a department's Organizational Unit (OU). 
Requesting an ADM account
Only Staff, Faculty, Guests, and Student Workers can request ADM accounts.
1.	Go to the Elevated Account Request Page.
2.	Click on Submit an RAD Admin Request.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Choose an Approver who would grant your request for an ADM account. 
4.	Choose the reason why you need an ADM account. 
5.	Click on Submit Request.
6.	You'll get a confirmation message that the request has been received and is awaiting approval.
7.	The designated approver must sign off on the request before your ADM account can be created. If they do not approve it within 30 days, you will receive an email that the request has expired, and you'll need to submit a new one. You will also receive an email if your request is denied. 
8.	Only after your request is approved will you receive the confirmation email below, which includes instructions on completing the setup of your ADM account. 

Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Follow the instructions in the email to complete the process. 
If you had an ADM account prior to when the Request process was implemented, you would still have to go through the Request process to link your existing ADM account to your NetID.
Once your ADM account has been provisioned correctly, you can manage the password for that account by logging into the NetID Management page using your standard NetID credentials. Once successfully logged in, you should see an option in the left-hand menu to manage your RAD Admin account. Passwords for the ADM account must be different than the password for your standard NetID account.
Setting up your ADM account password
1.	Go to the Create RAD ADM Account page and log in with your regular NetID and password.
2.	You'll be requested to set up two-step login with Duo for your ADM account.
3.	After setting up Duo, you'll be prompted to set the password for your RAD ADM Account. 
o	Note: the ADM password must be different from your regular NetID password and follow the password rules shown on the page. 

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0014494 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) Installing and setting up ADUC on Windows Workstation "
Eligible staff with admin credentials may follow the instructions below to install ADUC on a Windows Workstation.
1.	In the Search field, type Powershell and Windows PowerShell should appear. Right-click the mouse, choose Run As Administrator, and enter your -adm credentials.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Run the following command: Add-WindowsCapability -Online -Name Rsat.ActiveDirectory.DS-LDS.Tools~~~~0.0.1.0

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	The installation may take a few minutes to complete, and progress will be displayed in the prompt, as shown below. The prompt shouldn’t report any errors if successful.

Error! Filename not specified.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	After the installation, you should have an option for Active Directory Users and Computers on the Start menu. From there, you can select any of the Active Directory tools.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017834 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) Managing DUO for your RAD ADM Account "
To manage your devices enrolled in Duo for your RAD ADM account, after the initial setup, follow these instructions:
1.	Go to the NetID Management page. 
2.	Click on Manage NetID+ Two Factor Authentication.
3.	Log in with your regular NetID and NetID password (not your ADM account). 
4.	Click on RAD Admin account. 
5.	On the Duo prompt, select Other options. 
6.	Select Manage Devices. 
7.	Complete the Duo prompt. 
8.	You'll then be at the Duo Manage Devices screen for your ADM account. 
" KB0014497 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) Managing your Delegated OU in RAD "
Designated department IT staff will use a non-standard NetID account in RAD with elevated rights to perform the functions below. These are known as ADM accounts. Learn more on how to get access to Rad ADM accounts. Once created, these accounts would be added to the Departmental-OU admins or Departmental-Workstations admins group, depending on the level of access required.
OIT has defined naming convention guidelines for RAD objects. When creating these objects, OIT requires that you prefix the object with your delegated OU name if our naming standards do not meet your requirements.
Delegated -OU Admins will have full rights to manage their OU’s, as described below, except for manipulating standard NetID accounts. These accounts all reside in the People OU, which is managed by IDM, and any changes should originate from IDM processes. Passwords should be managed through netid.rutgers.edu to ensure all accounts stay in Sync (Portal, Luminous, AD, Email).
Create and edit group policies
OIT will create a Workstation baseline GP at the root of your delegated OU to enforce Loopback Group Policy-Merge and populate the Built-in Administrator’s group of each managed workstation with the departmental Workstation Admins group.
•	Group Policy Loopback Processing needs to be set to ‘Merge’. Since all user accounts are located in the People OU, we need to instruct the PC Objects to process the user policies assigned to the machine. This allows user configurations to run on machines when the user isn’t in the same OU. This only needs to be set once on a machine, and other delegated areas will set it in their workstation baseline policy.
•	Share mappings can be configured on this GP, and it can also be used to push PC settings down to all Workstations within the delegated OU.
•	Additional information can be found on the Microsoft site: Loopback processing of Group Policy.
Security groups
OIT will create these default groups when setting up your delegated OU. All other groups will be created by the delegated OU administrators.
•	OU-OU Admins
•	OU-Workstations Admins
•	OU-All Users
•	OU-All Workstations
•	OU-Restricted
Important notes regarding OU Admins vs Workstations Admin Group
Non-ADM accounts should NOT be members of the OU Admins or OU Workstation Admin groups.
ADM accounts should only be in one group or the other. Being in the OU Admins group can grant technicians more access than they need. OU Admins are already nested members of the Workstation Admin groups. If they only need Workstation Admin rights, they would be in the Workstation Admin group only. 
OU Admins: Users in this group are recommended to have the following permissions and responsibilities:
•	The permissions to modify rights over Groups, OUs, Group Policies, and Printers.
•	Creating and assigning group policies to control settings for the users and computers within the delegated OU.
•	Delegating certain administrative tasks to other users or groups within the delegated OU.
•	OU Admins are already members of the Delegated OU-Workstation Admins group.
Workstations Admins: Users in this group are recommended to have the following permissions and responsibilities:
•	The rights to migrate workstations to the domain, administrative rights over delegated OU workstations, and can add machines to the Delegated OU-All Workstations group.
•	Installing, configuring, and updating software applications on workstations.
•	Managing hardware configurations and drivers on individual computers.
•	Troubleshooting and resolving issues related to specific workstations.
•	Ensuring that workstations are compliant with security policies and updates.
•	Providing user support for workstation-related problems.
Organization Units (OUs)
Each OU admin will have the ability to create and delete Sub-OUs within their Delegated OU.
Printer objects
Listed in the directory and able to be set up as print queues or mapped by direct IP printing. Print Management is performed through an MMC snap-in, which is configured to connect to the print server hosting your print queue.
You can request that print queues be created on the Enterprise RAD print server (ASBRADPRINT01, 172.29.219.151) using this form. 
•	Please ensure the Request Category: RAD-Rutgers Active Directory, and the Request Type = Printers. We need the following info to set up a print queue.
•	Print queue name: Must begin with Delegated OU name.
•	IP: Please ensure that you can access our print server from your subnet.
•	Driver to user: link to the driver you want us to use for this print queue.
Shared drives
Managing Restricted Drive NTFS Permissions: Only applies to schools that have requested Enterprise On-premises storage.
•	Each School’s OU admin group will be given 'Modify' rights over the storage allocated to their school.
•	Each School will have a Global Restricted (R) drive.
o	User would have to be added to the top-level Restricted group to have the drive mapped (OU-Restricted)
o	For each folder within this Drive, there should also be a corresponding AD security group created and added to the security of the folder
o	Access Based Enumeration (ABE) is enabled on Enterprise storage Servers, ensuring users will only be able to view folders they have permission to access
o	User would need to be a member of the following groups
	OU-All Users
	OU-Restricted
	OU-Restricted (Name of Folder)
•	Each school will have a Shared (S) drive mapped.
o	The department drive is designed to be accessible to anyone within the department.
o	‘Modify’ permissions are automatically granted to anyone who is a member of the ‘OU-All Users’ group within the department’s Organizational Unit (OU).
•	Each school must request Home Drive space, which is a separate location from Departmental shares
o	Their H Drive (Home): Personal server storage location for saving work-related files.
o	Restricted to the individual user and could potentially mitigate data loss if stored on the network instead of locally.
Delegated OU-Workstation Admins will have rights to migrate machines to RAD and have administrative rights over the Departmental workstations through the Departmental Workstation baseline Group Policy. Delegated OU admins are members of the Workstation Admins group by default and have the same rights over PC objects as described below.
PC objects
All machines to be migrated will have to be pre-created in the Delegated OU before they can be migrated. OIT has defined standard naming convention to be used for RAD managed PC objects.
PC management should be done through ADUC (Active Directory Users and Computers), or ADAC (Active Directory Administrative Center).
Once added to the delegated OU’s All workstations group, the baseline policy will allow them to have administrative access over these devices.
This group is also granted 'Modify' rights over their departmental print queues.
" KB0014506 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) Mapping printers in RAD "
There are 2 ways to map your printers within RAD. You can set up printers by going directly through the Enterprise Print Server or GPOs. 
Directly through the Enterprise Print Server
OIT’s RAD enterprise print server can be found at \\asbradprint01.rad.rutgers.edu and this is where all your printers can be found.
GPO’s
1.	Launch Group Policy Management.
2.	Locate the OU that you manage.
3.	Right-click on the OU.
4.	Choose Create a GPO in this Domain, and Link it here….

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Name the Group Policy accordingly and click OK.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	In the Scope tab, under Security Filtering, remove Authenticated Users and add the appropriate group to which the GPO would apply, then click OK.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	In the Delegation Tab, click Add, and then add Authenticated Users with Read permissions. Select OK.

Error! Filename not specified.
8.	In the Delegation Tab, click Add. Add your Delegated OU’s OU Admin group with Edit Settings, delete, modify security permissions, and then select OK. This will ensure other OU admins can view the GP.

Error! Filename not specified.

Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Right-click the GPO you just created and choose Edit.
10.	Group Policy Management Editor will pop up.

Error! Filename not specified.
11.	Here, choose Computer Configuration > Policies > Windows Settings> Deployed Printers. You will enter the printer name (\\server\printername), click Add to deploy these printers to this Group Policy Object, and click OK.

Error! Filename not specified.

Error! Filename not specified.
12.	Go to Computer Configuration/Administrative Templates/Printers/Point and Print Restrictions to configure the Point and Print Restrictions on the GPO. 
1.	Set to Enabled
2.	Check Users can only point and print to these servers: 
3.	Enter print server name (asbradprint01.rad.rutgers.edu or rbhsradprint01.rad.rutgers.edu)
4.	Check Users can only point and print to machines in their forest
5.	Set Security Prompts: 
	When installing drivers for a new connection: Do not show a warning or elevation prompt.
	When updating drivers for an existing connection: Do not show a warning or elevation prompt.
6.	Click OK and close the window. 

Error! Filename not specified.
13.	In the Group Policy object created, navigate to the Settings tab and confirm that the settings were applied in User Configuration.

Error! Filename not specified.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0014498 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) Migrating to RAD "
Prior to migrating your department resources to RAD, the following items should be addressed and/or considered during the migration planning process.
•	Firewall:
o	Does your location/building have a perimeter firewall that will need/allow required access to RAD resources (Domain Controllers, Storage, Print Servers, DFS)?
•	Storage:
o	Will you continue to use your current department storage or will you move your data to RAD enterprise storage?
o	Initial enterprise storage amounts for departments are provisioned on a case by case basis and based on the number of the department staff and faculty.
•	Data access:
o	Will you require a new set up with new directories and new permissions, or will you require the use of a tool to migrate SID to ACL of new file structure?
•	Administrative rights:
o	Will specific users require Admin rights to Managed Workstations/Servers?
o	Group Policy will control administrative rights for specified Users on RAD PC’s.
•	Member servers:
o	Many member servers can be removed from the old domain and added to the new domain. Some member servers running SQL or IIS may require a re-ACLing or other preparation to insure a smooth service transition.
•	Group policies:
o	Do you have any existing policies being applied that will have to be setup in the new domain?
•	Service/generic accounts:
o	Are they currently being used? Will you need them in the new Domain?
•	OU configuration:
o	How do you see your OU structure once it's migrated?
o	Who are your OU admins?
•	Printer migrations:
o	If you are currently hosting print queues, please perform a print queue export, which would then be imported into the RAD Enterprise Print Servers.
o	If you are using direct IP Printing, OIT-EI recommends you use print queues once migrated to RAD.
Departmental IT staff can initiate a migration to RAD by submitting the Rutgers Active Directory Migration Request Form.
Migration methods
A typical migration can be performed at your own pace where you can pre-set up your group policies and migrate your resources and computers on your own timeframe. Using a temporary domain trust and leveraging dual ACLs on your resources can help smooth the transition period while some users are operating in the old domain and some users are operating in RAD. The RAD support team can assist you in developing your migration plan.
A sample migration blueprint can be found here.
Successful migration
After the successful migration to Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) Domain, you will now have access to the following managed services. Support for these services can be made by submitting an ServiceNow ticket with the appropriate details.
•	Enterprise Storage:
o	OIT will provide centrally funded storage to RAD members.
o	Storage is backed up and presented in a load balanced manner.
o	Quotas can be applied to Enterprise storage.
o	Home Drive Quotas are currently set to 10 GB.
o	Shares are mapped through Group Policy by DFS Links.
•	Enterprise Printing:
o	Papercut will be offered as a RAD offering.
o	Print queues can be installed on RAD managed print servers.
	Driver management, Printer Discovery, and Centralized print management are a few benefits of using Print servers.
•	Group Policy Settings:
o	RAD Managed workstations can have Group policies setup to globally manage PC settings and Rights.
o	ADMIN Rights- Assign administrative rights to a workstation to a specific user or group.
o	Internet Browser settings
	Setting Home pages
	Web Page Restrictions
	Setting Proxy Server
o	Secure workstations
	Customize Desktop
	Remove Control Panel Items
	Lockdown Start Menu
•	Enterprise Server Management:
o	Patched and rebooted
Post migration tasks
•	Testing
o	Managed Applications
o	Network Access to RAD devices
•	DNS Resolution – Ensure you are able to access RAD resources by FQDN (Fully Qualified Domain Name).
" KB0014463 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) RAD ADM (Active Directory Management) accounts "
Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) uses ADM accounts for elevated rights to modify an Organizational Unit's (OU’s), groups, printers, group policies, servers, and workstations within your organization. An ADM account will be based on your existing NetID.
If you are onboarding your department for RAD, you should identify who in your organization requires ADM accounts for OU or Workstation admin access and have them go through the request process below. Only Staff, Faculty, Guests, and Student Workers can request ADM accounts.
Request an Elevated/ADM account
Follow the instructions on how to request and setup a RAD ADM account. 
If you had an ADM account prior to when the Request process was implemented, you will have to still go through the Request process to link your existing ADM account to your NetID.
Once your ADM account has been provisioned correctly, the password for that account can be managed by logging into the NetID Management page with your standard NetID credentials. Once successfully logged in, you should see an option in the left-hand menu to manage your RAD Admin account. Passwords for ADM accounts must be different than the password for your standard NetID account.
Elevated/ADM Privileges
ADM accounts will not have any extra access unless added to the appropriate AD group or provided through a Group policy. If you are not sure what access is needed, please contact the OU admin for your department.
Restrictions
ADM accounts should not be used to log into workstations. If admin rights are needed, the ADM credentials should be entered in the elevated prompt.
" KB0014469 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) RAD architecture "
Table of Contents
•	Active Directory Configuration
•	DC Placement
•	DNS
•	Active Directory Schema
•	Users
•	Group
•	Default Group Policy Objects
•	Administrative Accounts
•	Service Accounts (Non-People) 
•	Directory Structure
The purpose of this site is to outline the proposed architecture for the Microsoft Enterprise Active Directory. The Office of Information Technology is committed to providing leadership and support for the effective use of technology, offering an extensive range of resources that support education, research and clinical environments. These enterprise-wide services provide technology solutions and secured standards to the Rutgers community.
•	Active Directory Configuration
•	DC Placement
•	DNS
•	Active Directory Schema
•	Provisioning and Sync Integration
•	Directory Structure
•	Desktop Management
Active Directory Configuration
The Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) is built across multiple domain controllers. The operating system of the domain controllers is currently Windows Server 2012 R2 and will be kept within one major rev of the latest released operating system. LDAP configuration settings are generally set to the Active Directory defaults.
DC Placement
The RAD domain controllers are geographically dispersed, with each main geographic location having at least one or more domain controllers. The domain controllers reside in physically secure datacenters that also co-locate with Rutgers’ core network infrastructure to ensure redundant high-bandwidth links to RUNet.
The domain controllers for RAD reside on Rutgers private address space and cannot be accessed from outside Rutgers without the aid of VPN. The DNS information for the domain controllers is also only advertised on Rutgers private address space. This space includes Rutgers Newark, Piscataway, New Brunswick, and Camden campuses and the Rutgers Biomedical and Health Science campuses.
A NAT boundary exists on the Rutgers network as a result of the merger between Rutgers and UMDNJ. The domain controllers reside on specific NAT-exempted networks, allowing their IP addresses to be accessed freely across the NAT boundary between the legacy Rutgers space and the RBHS space. Currently, the system implements multiple DNS views, so DNS resolution is handled correctly depending upon which side of the NAT boundary the query is coming from. Other key enterprise RAD components also reside on these networks. Although all clients and resources can get to central RAD resources no matter which side of the NAT they reside, clients may not necessarily be able to communicate directly to each other across the NAT boundary. For example, a PC on the legacy Rutgers space may not be able to reach another PC on the other side of the NAT boundary on the legacy UMDNJ space, even though both machines are members of RAD.
Although the domain controllers are available on all Rutgers spaces, departments or units running their own firewalls may need to allow incoming access from the domain resources to ensure proper communication. Detailed information can be obtained by inquiring to rad-support@oit.rutgers.edu.
DNS
DNS for RAD has been offloaded from the domain controllers and is completely handled by the University Infoblox DNS grid. The Infoblox grid supports secure Dynamic DNS for both forward and reverse lookups and fully supports the DNS service records required for Active Directory. The Infoblox grid also supports multiple DNS views so that DNS queries are handled correctly on both sides of the NAT boundary within the university. There is a separate DNS view for the legacy Rutgers space and for the legacy UMDNJ space.
Active Directory Schema
The Rutgers Active Directory schema is open to changes and includes both vendor and Rutgers custom schema elements. The RAD admin team will entertain any schema modification requests. All schema modifications must follow schema best practices. Vendors tend to follow these best practices. Custom schema modifications are also possible.

Error! Filename not specified.
Users
Most users in RAD will be provisioned and de-provisioned through synchronization to the People Registry using an in-house-designed Active Directory connector. RAD, in turn, provisions the accounts to Azure Active Directory as the basis for Rutgers Office 365 accounts. The attribute mappings for provisioned accounts are listed below.
RAD Attribute	Description	Used By	Source
objectclass	Classes necessary for people objects	RAD	Static value, NetId Mgmt
SN	Surname	RAD, MaCS	Registry, NetId Mgmt(adm accounts only)
C	Country	RAD	Registry, NetId Mgmt(adm accounts only)
ST	State	RAD	Registry, NetId Mgmt(adm accounts only)
title	Title of user	RAD, MaCS	HR (RIAS and Banner),NetId Mgmt(adm accounts only)
description	Descriptive Info	RAD	NetId Mgmt(adm accounts only)
displayName	Formatted name for directory listing	RAD, MaCS	Registry,NetId Mgmt(adm accounts only), Also sourced from Preferred name process set by Cliff
l	Location	RAD	Registry, NetId Mgmt(adm accounts only)
department	School or Department of user at RBHS	RAD, MaCS	Registry, NetId Mgmt(adm accounts only)
company	Operational Unit	RAD	Registry, NetId Mgmt(adm accounts only)
sAMAccountname	same value as NedID	RAD, IdM, MaCS	Registry, NetId Mgmt(adm accounts only)
userPrincipalName	Internet-Style Login name for a user	RAD, MaCS	Registry,NetId Mgmt only copies from RAD to RAD-adm account,RATS
pwdLastSet	Password last change	RAD, MaCS	NetID Mgmt
msExchHideFromAddressLists	Field to hide users from GAL	RAD, MaCS	Registry, NetId Mgmt(adm accounts only)
cn	Common Name	RAD, MaCS	Registry, NetId Mgmt(adm accounts only)
givenName	Name strings that are the part of a person’s (user or contact) name that is not their surname	RAD, MaCS	Registry, NetId Mgmt(adm accounts only)
initials	Middle initial	RAD	NetId Mgmt(adm accounts only)
employeeNumber	RCPID, Uniq IdM identifier to recognize a person who come from multiple sources (i.e Banner, PSFT, SRDB,Guest)	RAD, IdM	Registry, NetId Mgmt(adm accounts only)
businessCategory	User’s active roles	RAD, MaCS	Registry, NetId Mgmt(adm accounts only)
proxyAddresses	A proxy address is the address by which a Microsoft Exchange Server recipient object is recognized in a foreign mail system. Proxy addresses are required for all recipient objects, such as custom recipients and distribution lists.	RAD, MaCS	RATS
streetAddress	User’s Address	RAD, MaCS	Registry, NetId Mgmt(adm accounts only)
telephoneNumber	User’s Telephone #	RAD, MaCS	Registry, NetId Mgmt(adm accounts only)
l	User’s city/locale	RAD, MaCS	Registry
st	State or province	RAD, MaCS	Registry
postalCode	Postal code	RAD, MaCS	Registry, NetId Mgmt(adm accounts only)
mail	User’s mail address	RAD, MaCS	RATS
employeeID	External Id, Uniq IdM identifier to recognize a person who come from multiple sources (i.e Banner, PSFT, SRDB,Guest)	RAD, Any Third Party including cloud	Registry, NetId Mgmt(adm accounts only)
manager	Object link to manager	RAD, MaCS	RATS
extensionAttribute1	PHI Flag	RAD, MaCS	Registry for Now (TBD future),NetId Mgmt(adm accounts only)
extensionAttribute2	Display Name	RAD, MaCS	RATS,NetId Mgmt(adm accounts only)
extensionAttribute3	Connect Locking	RAD, MaCS	RATS
extensionAttribute4	Msexchange hide from GAL	RAD, MaCS	RATS
userAccountControl	A control flag in AD that indicate the active status of an account	RAD, MaCS	Registry/netID Managment
extensionAttribute5	Duo Enrollment	RAD, MaCS	NetID Mgmt
extensionattribute6	Primary SMTP address for user	RAD, OIT	MACS
Group
Initially, groups will be provisioned and managed using Microsoft’s Active Directory Users and Computers (ADUC) management interface. This will be used through a transition period for some of the early adopters of RAD. The intention is to eventually put in place a RU Groups Service powered by Grouper to handle all group creation and management. When ready, creation of groups will go through the RU Groups Service web interface and propagate to RAD.
Default Group Policy Objects
Learn more about Default RAD Domain Group Policies.
Administrative Accounts
The following Delegated rights will be granted to an OU admin underneath the Delegated Sub OU’s.
•	Create\Delete PC objects
•	Create\Delete Printer Objects
•	Create\Delete OU’s
•	Create\Modify Group Policies
•	Create\Modify Groups
Service Accounts (Non-People) 
Service accounts will reside in a protected Sub OU, underneath the Other People OU. These accounts will be configured with the following settings enabled.
•	Password does not expire
•	The user cannot change the password
Elevated accounts can be added to one or two groups, depending on the required rights.
•	RAD User Administration
o	Full Rights over User objects in the People OU (DirSync, AD Connector)
•	Rad Password Administration
o	Rights to modify Passwords for all user objects in the People OU (Portal password Sync)
Directory Structure

Error! Filename not specified.
The Rutgers Enterprise Active Directory is a single forest/single domain.
All NetID Based accounts are under the top-level People OU. There are almost 300,000 accounts residing in this OU.
All other non-NetID accounts (Service, Admin, Resource, and Application) are located under the top-level OtherPeople OU. The OtherPeople OU is separated into sub OUs by Org Type requesting the account.
Rutgers OIT does not guarantee the location of a given NetID account and reserves the right to relocate objects to meet changing service requirements.
Most computers and other directory objects specific to Rutgers clients are under the top-level Delegated OU. This is where departments, schools, and other Rutgers organizations that request a delegated OU are created. This is the only part of the RAD where campus Windows administrators are granted a non-default level of permissions. (creation/deletion of groups, sub-OUs, computer objects.
" KB0014518 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) RAD Hybrid Join FAQ "
Hybrid Azure AD Join has been implemented with RAD and is now available for use. A device is defined as hybrid joined if it has both an AD object and an Azure AD (AAD) object, which allow users of that device to sign in with a RAD user account.
With Hybrid Joins, the University can now leverage:
•	Device-based licensing for Office 365
o	This allows Office to be tied to the device rather than the user, making it ideal for enterprise or shared devices.
•	Reduced logins due to the device being assign both RAD and Azure authentication tokens
For information view the support page for Azure Hybrid Join Configuration Profile.
•	What are the benefits of adding devices to Azure?
•	Does a Rutgers department need to have an OU in RAD to participate in hybrid join?
•	How does this affect devices that are already joined to RAD?
•	What operating system is supported for hybrid join?
•	Can iOS or Android devices be managed using this method?
•	Will devices be encrypted with Bit locker?
•	Are Autopilot devices already Hybrid Joined?
•	Does the computer object need to be created in Azure or RAD before I can take advantage of Hybrid Join?
•	Is there a separate interface to see these in Azure or as an OU Admin?
•	Can I disable an Azure AD joined Device?
•	How do I disable Hybrid Join if I no longer wish to use it?
What are the benefits of adding devices to Azure?
•	Single Sign-On for Office 365 reduces authentication (Learn more)
•	Auto-activation for Microsoft Windows through Azure and RAD Group Policy
•	Device Based licensing for Office 365 (What is Device Based Licensing?)
Does a Rutgers department need to have an OU in RAD to participate in hybrid join?
Yes. Departments would need to have their own OU in RAD. There is no central group currently to manage devices for departments.
How does this affect devices that are already joined to RAD?
Devices already connected to RAD will see no difference. If a department would like to have RAD devices Hybrid Joined, a request needs to be submitted to EDM_support@oit.rutgers.edu to enable the synchronization.
What operating system is supported for hybrid join?
Devices running Windows 10 Pro and above are currently supported.
Can iOS or Android devices be managed using this method?
No, however, iOS and Android devices can be managed in Intune.
Will devices be encrypted with BitLocker?
Devices can be encrypted through BitLocker through RAD or Azure.
Are Autopilot devices already Hybrid Joined?
No, however, an Autopilot device can be joined to RAD via Configuration Profiles.
Does the computer object need to be created in Azure or RAD before I can take advantage of Hybrid Join?
The domain automatically synchronizes RAD-joined objects to Azure, and the device becomes hybrid. If the device does not exist in Azure or RAD, it must be joined to the RAD domain either via a profile or manual join.
Is there a separate interface to see these in Azure or as an OU Admin?
Yes, the interface for Azure is the Microsoft Intune Admin Center. 
Can I disable an Azure AD joined Device?
You should only disable an Azure AD device if you have lost it or if it is no longer in use. If you disable an Azure AD device, you will be unable to perform any Azure AD authentications from that device. You will not be able to re-enable it. There is a significant impact on the end user if an Azure AD device is mistakenly disabled.
Microsoft Office products (including Microsoft 365 Apps) require the device to be registered with the user's Azure AD account to allow sign-in.
How do I disable Hybrid Join if I no longer wish to use it?
To disable Hybrid Joins, email EDM_support@oit.rutgers.edu to stop the synchronization of the requested OU.
" KB0014500 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) RAD Migration Blueprint "
Follow the steps below for the RAD Migration:
1.	Rename local domain users to match Rutgers NetID users.
2.	Rename groups on the local domain to match RAD domain standards.
3.	ReACL all local domain resources to add RAD equivalent users/groups (so both local domain and RAD domain are included).
4.	Change all local group policies to act on computer objects with loopback instead of on users.
5.	Remove logon scripts, roaming profiles, Terminal Service profiles, and other user attributes where possible using the RAD User Workaround options.
6.	Document the user attributes that are still required on user objects and investigate whether they can be set in the RAD domain.
7.	Import RAD users and groups into SQL environments and apply the same roles.
8.	Replicate the OU structure in your delegated OU. Request special directory permissions from OIT.
9.	Export your GPO-based IPSec rules and either redeploy them as local IPSec rules or ask OIT to implement them as GPO-based for you.
10.	Export/import your group policy objects to the RAD domain and link as appropriate.
11.	Reconfigure new computer deployment processes to target the RAD domain.
12.	Ensure you’ve got the cross-forest GPO setting in place in your local domain.
13.	Update all IIS default domain settings if using your local domain for authentication.
14.	Change ownership of profiles from local domain user to RAD user.
15.	Change the default logon domain on all computers to the RAD domain.
16.	Disable local domain users.
17.	Adjust the change domain suffix on the domain join setting as needed.
18.	Migrate workstations on whatever time scale that works. Disable the local domain computer account when it is moved to keep track.
19.	Migrate servers on whatever time scale that works. Start with the least complex servers.
20.	Until all computers are migrated, leave a single domain controller behind with a logon script to automatically migrate missed computers like laptops.
21.	Decommission your old domain.
" KB0014502 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) RAD naming conventions "
Table of Contents
•	OU Name
•	Group Names
•	Suggested PC and Printer Names
•	Suggested Server Names – Non enterprise servers
All Delegated OU’s will be named after the Departmental Code in PeopleSoft, or a Pre-determined code established by the OU Admins. This code will be used as the prefix for AD objects within the SUB OU’s of those delegated OU’s. This will make it easier for OU admins to search for their objects and ensure that OIT-EI will be able to identify the team that supports the objects.
OIT would like to ensure the naming convention for OUs and groups stays consistent with the guidelines below. PC, Printers, and Servers can adhere to internal naming conventions that suit the needs of the department, but request that documentation of that naming convention be provided to OIT.
OU Name
Departmental Code assigned from an authoritative source or pre-determined by Admin (i.e OIT, ORA, SAS).
•	Sub OU names
o	Based on sub-departments. (i.e Dean, EI, ESO)
o	Can also be named based on Purpose (Lab, Clinics, Classroom)
Group Names
Groups used for application, data, or printer access.
•	Prefixed with OU name.
•	Should have the name of the app, or the data that it will access.
•	Example = OIT group used to provide access to Splunk
o	OIT Splunk Users
•	Example = Group Used to provide access to the ORA print queue we previously named.
•	The print queue name can be used for the access group name.
o	ORAKBD206P01 Users
Suggested PC and Printer Names
•	Prefixed with OU name
•	Should have building and/or room #
•	Should have an Identifier to determine the type of device. (D= Desktop, L=Laptop, M=Mac Device, P= Printer)
•	Number digit to identify how many of these devices reside in the same location.
•	Example: A RAD-managed PC for the OIT department resides in the ASB room 100A.
o	OITASB100AD01
•	Example = RAD Managed print queue for ORA that sits in Knight’s Bridge Room D206
o	ORAKBD206P01
Suggested Server Names – Non enterprise servers
•	Prefixed with OU name
•	Should have a building or data center name present.
•	Should have the name of the app supported or the Role within the name.
•	Example = OIT server for Splunk Access, located in ASB Datacenter
o	OITASBSPLUNK
" KB0014473 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) RAD shared drives are not mapping properly "
You have migrated individuals to RAD, and now their shared drives are not mapping properly. Confirm whether this is a specific person or group/group or an issue affecting the entire OU.
Specific User/Group
•	Check the Group Policy
•	Check the machine(s) Event Log
•	Confirm the person(s) and or Group(s) are associated with the proper Group(s) for proper permissions
•	Confirm that uidNumber is populated
Entire OU
•	Check the Group Policy
•	Check the machine(s) Event Log
•	Confirm person(s) and or Group(s) are associated with the proper Group(s) for proper permissions
•	Confirm that uidNumber is populated
You can review the Troubleshooting Group Policy Objects article and the guide on mapping shares through group policy for further assistance. 
If the uidNumber is not populated, please contact RAD Support via ServiceNow. Please inform them of which NetIDs are missing uidNumbers. Work with your IT Team Leads/ADM users to troubleshoot. 
 
" KB0014504 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) RAD storage as a service "
Home Drives
Data and snapshots are replicated to a twin storage array in a different data center.
Snapshot schedule is:
Snapshot-Type	Retention-Period	Snapshot-Time
Daily Snapshot	31 Days	12 AM Everyday
Weekly Snapshot	6 weeks (43 Days)	1 AM Every Sunday
Restoring previous versions of files and folders in shares
1.	On your Windows PC, go to File Explorer > This PC.
2.	Find the requested share or any folder within, right-click, and select Restore previous versions.

Error! Filename not specified.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	On the Previous Versions menu you can see which version of the backup you would like to restore by selecting the backup and selecting Open to review.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	If it is the version you are trying to restore, select Restore.
5.	Additionally, you can select Open to see the individual folders or files that are contained in previous versions through the File Explorer.
Error! Filename not specified.
At this time, home drives are not protected using NetBackup.
Students
No home drives planned at this time.
Department shares – Administrative
Department shares for departmental administration are provided at no cost; storage for research is handled separately. Initial storage amounts for the department are provisioned on a case-by-case basis and based on the number of department staff and faculty. Department shares are protected using built-in Snapshot policies. Data and snapshots are replicated to a twin storage array in a different data center.
Snapshot schedule is:
Snapshot-Type	Retention-Period	Snapshot-Time
Daily Snapshot	31 Days	12 AM Everyday
Weekly Snapshot	6 weeks (43 Days)	1 AM Every Sunday
Restore Procedure
User can restore a file/folder from the Windows side by right-clicking on the share and then selecting " Restore Previous Versions.
Backups of the department storage using NetBackup are not provided by default. Departments can contact rad-support@oit.rutgers.edu for inquiries and pricing on backups of their data.
Department shares – Research
Department shares for research are handled on a case-by-case basis. Contact rad-support@oit.rutgers.edu for more information.
" KB0014508 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) mapping shares through group policy "
1.	Launch Group Policy Management.
2.	Locate your OU that you manage.
3.	Right-click on the OU.
4.	Choose Create a GPO in this Domain, and Link it here…

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Name the Group Policy accordingly and click OK.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	In the Scope tab, under Security Filtering, remove Authenticated Users and add the appropriate group the GPO would apply to and click OK.

Error! Filename not specified.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	In the Delegation Tab, click Add, and then add Authenticated Users with Read permissions. Select OK.

Error! Filename not specified.

Error! Filename not specified.
8.	In the Delegation Tab, click Add, and add your Delegated OU’s OU Admin group with Edit Settings, delete, modify security permissions, and select OK. This will ensure other OU admins are able to view the GP.

Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Right-click the GPO you just created and choose Edit
10.	Group Policy Management Editor will pop up.

Error! Filename not specified.
11.	In here, choose User Configuration > Preferences > Windows Settings > Drive Maps.

Error! Filename not specified.
12.	Right-click Drive Maps, highlight New, and select Mapped Drive.

Error! Filename not specified.
13.	In the General Tab, for Location, enter the DFS link (recommended by copying and pasting), and for Drive Letter, select the appropriate drive letter.

Error! Filename not specified.
14.	In the Common tab, select Run-In logged-on user’s security context (user policy option).

Error! Filename not specified.
15.	Select Apply > OK to close the window.
16.	In the Group Policy object that was created, go to the Settings tab, and confirm that settings were applied in User Configuration.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0016165 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) Troubleshooting Group Policy Objects "
When troubleshooting group policy errors and issues, check the following:
1.	Confirm that the desired settings have been set up in the Group Policy Object.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Is the group policy object linked to the desired OU and sub-OU? 
3.	Ensure that the GPO link is enabled. 
4.	Is the GPO or parts of it disabled? 

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Add Authenticated Users to Delegation Tab with Read permissions.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	GP Result on Command Prompt. In a command prompt run gpresult /r which will show you which GPs have been applied. You will also get the following information. 
1.	Is the PC connected over a slow link?
2.	The last time Group Policy was applied.
3.	Which DC the Group Policy was applied from.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	The report then lists the GPOs that were applied. If your policy is listed here, it means that the client has processed the GPO, and the issue is located elsewhere.
5.	There may also be a list of group policies that didn’t apply. Each GPO states the reason why it could not be applied. Reasons can be: 
	Not Applied (Empty): The computer found a valid GPO to apply, but it does not contain any settings.
	Denied (WMI Filter): The GPO is generally valid for this computer or user, but the WMI filter denied the computer/user access to it. The assigned WMI filter name is displayed next to the filtering.
	Denied (Security): The computer is not allowed to apply the GPO.
	Disabled (GPO): The Group Policy or the computer configuration part of it has been disabled.
6.	If the GP is not being applied, verify the following: 
	The PC object/User object being used is in the appropriate group for the GP to be applied.
	If the user or PC object has been added to a group, has the user logged off, and the PC rebooted?
7.	Check the Event Log. If the GP is being applied, check the event logs to see if any errors are reported. Even if the processing of GPO’s are working, there may be single issues. For example, a file to be copied might not be accessible. You can find these logs via Event Viewer (or by running eventvwr.msc). The group policy-related events are located under Windows Logs > System. Filter the log for event sources starting with 'group policy'.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0014482 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) What RAD Groups does RUN-OIT EMS use? "
These groups belong to Rutgers-Newark IT to support the Newark Campus EMS application, supporting the Newark Campus and the business school in New Brunswick.
The application is a reservation and event management system that allows users to be authenticated based on their group membership in RAD. LDAP determines the process template they will receive and where they can make reservations. This application is accessible to anyone, which is why the group is comprised of all staff.
The group includes all Rutgers Staff based on a nightly import from the DW. These applications support approximately 20k users, so a manual process could potentially be inefficient and time-consuming, so RAD groups support its functionality. In the case of EMS, these RAD groups provide role information that EMS uses to determine what rooms are available for the user to schedule and what rules apply to their scheduling requests.
Below are the groups associated with the EMS application:
•	Run Oit Ems-Faculty
•	Run Oit Ems-Staff
•	Run Oit Ems-RBS Students
•	Run Oit Ems-CJ Grad Students
•	Run Oit Ems-Law Students
•	Run Oit Ems-Camden Law Students
•	Run Oit Ems-SPAA MPA Students
•	Run Oit Ems-SPAA PhD Students
•	Run Oit Ems-SPAA Undergraduate Students
•	Rls Nwk-Computer Services Users
•	Rls Nwk-Library Users
" KB0019461 Rutgers Active Directory (RAD) Windows Local Administrator Password Solution (LAPS) Overview  "
Supported Operating Systems
Windows LAPS is now available on the following OS platforms with the specified update or later installed: 
•	Windows 11 22H2 - April 11 2023 Update
•	Windows 11 21H2 - April 11 2023 Update
•	Windows 10 - April 11 2023 Update
•	Windows Server 2022 - April 11 2023 Update
•	Windows Server 2019 - April 11 2023 Update 
•	Windows Server 2025        
Configuration
Windows LAPS is configured on-prem via Group Policy. Below are the settings that group policy controls, along with the recommended settings. 
Windows LAPS Policy Settings 
The following settings are located in Computer Configuration > Policies > Administrative Templates > System > LAPS.
Windows LAPS Policy Settings 
Setting 	Description 
Password Settings 	If enabled, you can configure the following aspects of the password that is generated: 
•	Password Complexity: Determines what type of characters are used to generate the password. The available actions are:  
o	Large letters 
o	Large letters + small letters 
o	Large letters + small letters + numbers 
o	Large letters + small letters + numbers + specials
o	Passphrase (long words) - (Windows 11 24H2 and Server 2025)
o	Passphrase (short words with unique prefixes) - (Windows 11 24H2 and Server 2025)
o	Passphrase (short words) - (Windows 11 24H2 and Server 2025)
•	Password Length: Determines how many characters the password will be in length.? This must be a number from 8 – 64.? The default value is 14.
•	Password Age (Days): This is the number of days that will be used to set the password expiration time.? This must be a number from 1 – 365.? The default value is 30. 
•	Passphrase length: This is the number of words that will be used in the passphrase (when Password Complexity is set to a passphrase option). This must be a number from 3 to 10. The default value is 6.
(Windows 11 24H2 and Server 2025).
Name of administrator account to manage 	The name of the local administrator account whose password is managed. 
Set this only if you want Windows LAPS to manage an account other than the built-in Administrator account. 
The default, when not specified, is the built-in Administrator (by its well-known RID). 
Notes: If you specify a disabled account, the password will be managed by the account, and the account will not be enabled by LAPS.? If you specify an account that does not exist.? If you specify an account that is not a member of the local Administrators group, LAPS will not add it to the local Administrators group. 
Configure automatic account management	(Windows 11 24H2 and Server 2025)
Note: the DSRM account on domain controllers cannot be configured for automatic account management. This policy has no effect on domain controllers and will be ignored even if configured for a DC.
•	Specify the target account to manage: specifies whether the built-in admin account or a custom account should be managed.
•	Automatic account name (or name prefix): specifies the name, or name prefix, to use for the managed account. 
o	If this policy setting is configured, Windows LAPS will use it as the target account's name or name prefix.
o	If this policy setting is not configured, Windows LAPS will use "WLapsAdmin" as the account name or name prefix.
o	Note: this name is treated as a prefix when account name randomization is configured, see comments below.
•	Enable the managed account: specifies whether the managed account should be enabled. 
o	If this policy setting is configured, Windows LAPS will enable the specified managed account.
o	If this policy setting is not configured, Windows LAPS will disable the specified managed account.
o	Note: Windows LAPS regularly maintains and rotates the password of the managed account, regardless of whether the account is enabled or disabled.
•	Randomize the name of the managed account: specifies whether the name of the managed account should be randomized with a random numeric suffix. 
o	If this policy setting is configured, Windows LAPS will add an eight-digit random numeric suffix to the managed automatic account name and re-randomize the account name each time the password is rotated.
o	If this policy setting is not configured, Windows LAPS will use the managed automatic account name.
o	If the managed automatic account name prefix is configured, Windows LAPS will use up to the first twelve (12) characters of that name as a prefix for the random name. If the managed automatic account name is not configured, Windows LAPS will use "WLapsAdmin" as the name prefix.
Enable password encryption 	Enabling this setting has no effect unless the password is configured to be backed up to Active Directory and the Active Directory domain functional level is Windows Server 2016 or higher.
If enabled, the password is encrypted before it is backed up to AD. 
If disabled, the password is not encrypted before it is backed up to AD. 
If not configured, the default value is Enabled. 
Enable password backup for DSRM accounts 	When you enable this setting, the DSRM administrator account password will be managed and backed up to Active Directory.
Enabling this setting has no effect unless the managed device is a domain controller and password encryption is also enabled.
Do not allow password expiration time longer than required by policy 	 
If this setting is enabled or not configured, planned password expiration that exceeds the password age set by the "Password Settings" policy is NOT allowed. When such an expiration is detected, the password is changed immediately, and password expiration is set according to policy.
If this setting is disabled, password expiration time may be longer than required by the "Password Settings" policy.
 
Configure size of encrypted password history 	 
Use this setting to configure how many previous encrypted passwords will be stored in Active Directory. This must be a number from 0 – 12.
This setting only applies when encrypted passwords are being backed up to AD.
This setting may help out when reverting to a VM shapshot where an older password was in use at the time the snapshot was taken, or when using a system restore point.
The default value, if not configured, is 0.
 
Configure password backup directory 	Use this setting to configure which directory the local admin account password is backed up to.
The allowable settings are:
•	0: Disabled
•	1: Azure AD only
•	2: Windows Server (on-prem) AD only 
If not specified, this setting will default to 0 (Disabled).
If this setting is configured to 1, and the managed device is not joined to Azure Active Directory, the local administrator password will not be managed.
If this setting is configured to 2, and the managed device is not joined to Active Directory, the local administrator password will not be managed.
If this setting is disabled or not configured, the local administrator password is not managed.
Configure authorized password decryptors 	When enabled, you will specify the user or group authorized to decrypt the password in AD. 
You must provide one of the following as the decryptor 
•	The SID of the group or user
•	The name of the group or user in the following format: RAD\<name> 
Warning: If the device cannot resolve the SID or name provided, the password will not be backed up. 
This setting applies only when encrypted passwords are backed up to AD. 
The default value when not specified is the Domain Admins group. 
Post-authentication actions 	Specify an action that will be triggered after the successful authentication of the account whose password is being managed. 
The available actions are: 
•	Take no actions
•	Reset the password
•	Reset the password and log off the managed account
•	Reset the password and reboot the device 
Grace period: specifies the amount of time (in hours) to wait after an authentication before executing the specified post-authentication actions.
The grace period must be set greater than 0; if set to 0 the action will not be triggered.
If this setting is disabled or not configured, post-authentication actions will default to "Reset the password and logoff the managed account" after 24 hours.
If you want it to take no action, enable this setting and select Take no action. 
 
Example GPO:
Error! Filename not specified.
You must set up Configure authorized password decryptors and assign it to your Workstation Admins group or another group of users who can decrypt the stored passwords. If this is not configured, only Domain Admins can see the password. Once configured to your Workstation Admins group, Domain Admins will not be able to decrypt the password. 
If you want to manage an account that is not the default Administrator account on the computer, set the Name of administrator account to manage. Keep in mind, LAPS can only manage one account. 
Retrieving the LAPS password
Through the GUI, open ADUC or Active Directory Administrative Center using your -adm account. Find the computer, open Properties, and click the LAPS tab. If using ADUC, make sure you turn on Advanced Features under View to be able to view the LAPS tab. 
In Powershell, launch powershell as your -adm account, then you can run:
Get-LapsAdPassword -Identity <computername> -AsPlainText 
If you plan on using password history, the only way to view it is through powershell, run the following command to see the history: 
Get-LapsAdPassword -Identity <computername> -AsPlainText -IncludeHistory 
PowerShell Module
Cmdlet 	Description 
Get-LapsAdPassword 	Gets the saved password(s) from Windows Server Active Directory. 
Invoke-LapsPolicyProcessing 	Initiates the processing of the current LAPS policy. 
Reset-LapsPassword 	Immediately rotate the password for the currently managed local account. 
 
" KB0012560 Rutgers Automated Mailing Systems (RAMS) How to request a new RAMS list "
RAMS Official mailing lists are intended to be used by the University to communicate official university business to targeted student and employee populations. They are not intended to be a conduit for advertising, commercial solicitations, event promotion, or personal business.
How Do I Request an Official University Mailing List?
To request an Official University Mailing List, fill out the RAMS List request form. You will be asked to provide the following info:
•	Who is the intended audience for the list (e.g., your department)?
•	What type of content will be posted to the list?
o	Ex. Official announcements, class updates, advertising of courses, etc.
o	If Other is selected, a new field will populate for you to enter more information.
•	What is the specific target demographic for the list (e.g., "all students on the Newark campus who are not U.S. residents")? 
o	When specifying demographic parameters (e.g., "all French majors"), ensure the school code and curriculum code are included.
•	Who will serve as the owner or moderator of the list? 
o	Include their Rutgers NetID and email address.
•	Who will act as the alternate owner or moderator of the list?
•	What is the proposed name for the list? 
o	The Office of Information Technology requires a prefix unless the list is intended for University-wide distribution: 
	CM_listname@rams.rutgers.edu (Camden)
	NB_listname@rams.rutgers.edu (New Brunswick)
	NK_listname@rams.rutgers.edu (Newark)
o	Lists that span multiple campuses are suggested to start with RU_
•	Should archived postings be publicly accessible to any person with a valid NetID?
Help Desk Contact Information
Contact the Rutgers IT Help Desk on your campus:
•	Camden: call 856-225-6274 or email help@camden.rutgers.edu
•	New Brunswick: call 833-648-4357 or email help@oit.rutgers.edu
•	Newark: call 973-353-5083 or email help@newark.rutgers.edu
" KB0012630 Rutgers Automated Mailing Systems (RAMS) RAMS list archives and statistics "
The Archives are available through the main RAMS page. You can also bookmark the direct link to the Archives Tool.
The Archives tool provides access to the archived postings to a list, as well as to statistical information about that list. The Archives tool can also be used to diagnose list problems.
All lists are archived. However, some may have Public Archives, which can be viewed by anyone with RAMS access, while others may have Admin Only Archives, which can be viewed only by a list's manager.
Selection
When you go to the Archives tool, you will be presented with a list of mailing lists to choose from. Click on a list name to get to the archives and statistics for that mailing list.
Archive Page
The Archive page consists of two sections. The top section is the Archives section, and the bottom section is the Statistics section.
Archives
The archive lists all the messages posted in the list, from newest to oldest, beginning with the first message posted after archiving was turned on. For every message, it lists:
•	Date: the date and time the last copy of the message left the RAMS system to be mailed to the list members.
•	Subject: the contents of the Subject header of the message.
•	Sender: the address in the From header of the message.
•	Recipients: the number of addresses it was sent to.
•	View: click to show the text of the message.
A message will only appear in the archives if the post passes through moderation and spam filtering. If it is still being held for moderation or if spam filters prevented it from being delivered, it will not be added to the archives.
The Archives list all messages that have been processed by RAMS for the list, but they do not guarantee that those messages reached all members of the list. For example, if a recipient's mailbox is full, RAMS will add the message to the archive even though it could not deliver the message.
If no messages have yet been posted to a list, or if you are viewing an Admin Only Archive and are not a manager for the list, you'll see "No Messages Found" instead of the archives.
Statistics
RAMS tracks several statistics:
•	Number of messages: is total number of messages that have been posted to the list.
•	Average number of recipients: is the average number of recipients per each message that has been posted to the list.
•	Total number of recipients: is the total of all recipients over the life of the list.
•	Last message sent: shows the date of the last message RAMS processed for the list. This is very useful for determining if a recent message has been delivered to the list.
•	Average message size: shows the average byte size of each message.
•	Total message size: shows the total byte size of all messages the list has received.
If a message is not successfully posted to all members of a list, no statistical information will be generated for that message. A successful posting is one that has been sent out to all members; it does not mean that each of the addresses is actually valid or reachable. For example, if an email address no longer exists or cannot accept mail for some reason, this will not affect the RAMS statistics.
" KB0012631 Rutgers Automated Mailing Systems (RAMS) RAMS list moderation - Managing messages sent to a RAMS list "
What is a moderated list?
All messages sent to a moderated RAMS list must be approved before they are delivered to the list members.
How does moderation work?
When a message is sent to a moderated RAMS list, a notification is first sent to the list's moderators. Once approved by a moderator, the message will be forwarded to everyone on the list.
Approving and declining messages by email
To approve a message, select the approval link included in the RAMS confirmation email. The link opens the RAMS interface, where the message can be reviewed and approved. Each message must be approved individually. If another moderator has already approved or deleted the message, an informational email will indicate that no pending message exists.
No action is needed to decline the message.
Approving and declining messages with the List Manager in the web interface
1.	You will first need to log in to the List Manager using your NetID and password.
2.	Select which list you want to review.
3.	The Pending Moderation card lists messages awaiting approval by the list moderator. By default, messages that are considered spam are not displayed. Turn the Show Spam Messages slider to On to see messages flagged as spam.
4.	Use the Search Moderation field to find messages by subject or sender.
5.	Select View next to a message to read its full content. 
6.	To approve or delete messages, select the desired messages in the table by clicking on the row. The row will become highlighted. Click again to deselect a row.
7.	Select Approve Selected Messages or Delete Selected Messages. 
o	Those two buttons will only appear after messages are selected in the table.
8.	If you would like to delete all messages in the table, select Delete All Messages.
Please note you cannot approve and delete messages at the same time.
Additional information
See the list editor manual for more information on activating moderation.
For additional information, including the latest RAMS updates, view the RAMS documentation. 
" KB0012632 Rutgers Automated Mailing Systems (RAMS) RAMS list operator’s guide "
The Rutgers Automated Mass-mailing System (RAMS) is a collection of databases, web-based applications, and automated processes that deliver mass email to portions of the Rutgers population based on demographic information. The web-based applications allow authorized users to create and manage mailing lists, and to view their archives and statistical data.
At the heart of RAMS are two databases: one gathers information from various university databases and consolidates it into a single local database. This is done primarily to avoid maintenance hours on other systems conflicting with the best hours for sending bulk mailings. This database is updated daily.
The other database contains all the information for the mailing lists. When a message is sent to a list, RAMS looks up the list's rules in this database and uses them to compose the address list from the first database.
The web-based application provides the main user interface for RAMS. It is used to update information in the list database and trigger actions or automated processes. The important thing to remember is that it interacts with the database in real time. 
Automated processes keep RAMS functioning. Daily database updates keep demographic information current, and daily backups preserve the list information. Other processes handle the incoming postings, and a primetime process runs every hour to manage pending primetime mailings.
The life cycle of a message
Here's what can happen in RAMS when a message is posted to a list.
Open list
If the list is an open list (i.e., anyone can post to it), you send the message, which is received by the mail server.
1.	The mail server hands it over to the RAMS automated process.
2.	The process parses it and checks if the list actually exists.
3.	If the list exists, it checks whether it has a primetime restriction. 
o	If there is no primetime restriction or the mail arrives at a time when it can be broadcast, it posts the message, and the process is complete.
o	If there is a primetime restriction, the mail is put in the primetime queue to be processed when it is within the list's scheduled primetime
Closed list
If the list is closed, the process is the same, except that RAMS also checks whether the message sender is a list member. If they are, it proceeds as described for an open list. If they are not, it sends them an error message, and the process is complete.
Moderated list
If the list is moderated, the process is somewhat different.
1.	First, the mail is received by the mail server.
2.	Then, it hands the message off to the RAMS automated process.
3.	It queues a copy of the message in the moderation queue and then appends another copy to a confirmation email request sent to all the moderators.
4.	A moderator may select the approval link included in the RAMS confirmation email to approve the message for posting, or they may approve it via the List Manager. 
o	If approved via the approval link in the confirmation email, the approval is sent to the mail server, handed off to the RAMS process, and the moderation queue is checked for the message. If it is there, it sends it out or pushes it to the primetime queue as appropriate for the list.
o	If approved via the web application, the application checks the primetime restrictions and either sends the message out or pushes it to the primetime queue to be sent out later.
5.	Once the approval link is selected, the process is complete.
6.	Once a moderator approves a message, it will no longer appear available for moderation in the web application, and any further attempts to confirm by the approval link in the confirmation email will generate informational error messages.
Moderating messages
1.	Log in to the RAMS List Manager using your Rutgers NetID and NetID password.
2.	Select the appropriate list and locate the Pending Moderation section.
3.	By default, messages considered spam are not displayed. Turn the Show Spam Messages slider to On to see messages flagged as spam. 
4.	Select View next to a message to read its full content.
5.	To approve or delete messages, select the desired messages in the table by clicking on the row. The row will be highlighted; click it again to deselect it.
6.	Once you have selected all the messages you wish to approve or delete, select Approve Selected Messages or Delete Selected Messages below the table. Those two buttons will only appear after messages are specified in the table. 
What do I need to do to operate my list?
Your responsibilities depend on the type of list you have.
General mailing lists
These are static lists of member email addresses provided and maintained by the list's owner. General mailing lists are handled by Mailman, not RAMS. Information on requesting Mailman mailing lists can be found in the Mailman knowledge article.
Official mailing lists
These are primarily for official University announcements. The owner of the list specifies a demographic category, and the list of member email addresses is sourced from Rutgers databases. Follow the guide on requesting a new RAMS list.
Class mailing lists
These are for announcements and class discussions outside of regular class meeting hours and are created through the class list creator.
The list creator requires a valid Rutgers NetID and password. In addition, access to class sections is governed by your roster privileges, which may be obtained by contacting your Dean/Director/Department Chair or your designated assistant responsible for assigning privileges.
Tips, caveats, and other information
•	If you want to confirm that a message has been sent to the list, look in the Archive section of that list.
•	If you need to ensure a mailing is approved immediately, don't wait for the approval link in the confirmation email. Instead, use the web interface.
•	If it is an emergency and you need a message sent immediately, you can skip the primetime wait by using the List Manager's override feature. 
o	Please note that the primetime override feature is monitored. Abuse of this feature may be construed as a violation of the University's Acceptable Use Policy and may turn your list off.
•	Do not reply to informational messages advising that your message has been submitted to the moderator for approval. You will keep receiving more of them as the system treats replies as new message submissions.
•	Suggestions for new RAMS list features or ways to improve RAMS are welcome. Submit your comments to help@oit.rutgers.edu.
Additional information
Further information can be found in the RAMS documentation. 
" KB0012633 Rutgers Automated Mailing Systems (RAMS) RAMS troubleshooting guide "
Table of contents
•	Troubleshooting sending issues 
o	I submitted a message to a list, but nothing happened
o	Messages are sent twice
o	Subscribing to a list
•	Troubleshooting recipient issues 
o	Changing a recipient's email addresses
o	Some people are not receiving emails from the list
o	Receiving unwanted email
•	Troubleshooting moderation issues 
o	I can moderate messages through the web, but not via the approval link in the confirmation email
•	Troubleshooting administrative issues 
o	I cannot log in to the web tools
o	A member of my list does not want to receive email/wants to be removed
•	Additional information
Troubleshooting sending issues
I submitted a message to a list, but nothing happened
•	Many lists are moderated, and your message will not be delivered until a Moderator approves it.
•	Approved messages will be delivered immediately if the list has no primetime hours set or if the message was sent during the list's primetime hours. For lists with primetime hours, any messages sent outside those hours will be held until the list's primetime.
•	If the primetime hours have passed and you have not seen your message and cannot find it in the archives, you should contact the list owner to check the email's status. To do so, send an email to listname-owner@rams.rutgers.edu (replace listname with the actual name of the list).
Messages are sent twice
•	This is most likely a problem with your email client or server. Contact your local Help Desk for assistance with this issue.
Subscribing to a list
•	Many lists will accept additional recipients. Contact the list owners by email at listname-owner@rams.rutgers.edu (replace listname with the actual name of the list) and explain your request to be added to the list.
•	RAM technical Support Staff do not have the authority to add you to lists.
Troubleshooting recipient issues
Changing a recipient's email addresses
•	RAMS delivers mail to the email address listed in the Rutgers Online Directory. If someone is no longer receiving emails at that address, they must visit the NetID Management Tool page and select Manage Display Address to change the email address. If the listed email address is correct and they still cannot receive mail, they should contact their campus Help Desk for assistance.
Some people are not receiving emails from the list
•	Verify that those who did not receive the email are on the list.
•	Verify that the people who did not receive the message are reading emails from the address listed in the Rutgers Online Directory. This is the email RAMS uses to deliver mail. If they use the address in the Rutgers Online Directory, ask them to check their Junk or Spam folders. If they still cannot find the message, contact your local Help Desk.
•	If they read the email from an address other than that listed in the Rutgers Online Directory, please ask them to read it at that address and/or update their Directory entry. They may update their entry by visiting the Manage Display Address tab in the NetID Management Tool.
Receiving unwanted email
•	RAMS lists are generated with demographic data. If you are receiving mail from a RAMS list, it is because you fit the demographics for that list. Examples are all students in a course or all full-time Newark employees. If you believe you are receiving a RAMS list you should not be on, contact your local Help Desk and ask them to check whether you are receiving email in error. If the Help Desk can verify an error, you will be removed from the list. If the Help Desk cannot verify the error, they will not be able to remove you from the list.
•	You may contact the list owners by sending an email to listname-owner@rams.rutgers.edu (replace listname with the actual name of the list) and request that they remove you from that list. Please remember that these are official University lists, and the Administrators are not required to remove you just because you do not wish to receive the list email. Some of the official announcements are made by the university under legal obligation.
Troubleshooting moderation issues
I can moderate messages through the web, but not via the approval link in the confirmation email
•	Verify that your email address is listed as a moderator for your list. If it does not match, either send your approval messages from the listed moderator address or update the listed email address. If your email address does not match the listed moderator address, contact your local Help Desk for assistance.
Troubleshooting administrative issues
I cannot log in to the web tools
•	Your NetID is needed to log in to the RAMS administrative features.
•	If you believe you are entering your NetID and password but still cannot log in, contact your local Help Desk for assistance.
A member of my list does not want to receive email/wants to be removed
•	RAMS lists are populated based on rosters or demographically selected members. RAMS does not allow you to remove members from those lists. If a list member does not wish to receive these emails and the list Administrator (professor or department chair) approves, you can turn off email delivery for those who do not want to receive them.
•	Review the RAMS documentation for more information on Managing Membership. 
Additional information
Further information can be found in the RAMS Documentation. 
" KB0012641 Rutgers Automated Mailing Systems (RAMS) Requesting a new class or course RAMS list "
Class or Course Mailing Lists are for announcements and class discussions outside of normal class meeting hours.
How Do I Request a Class or Course Mailing List?
The RAMS Class List Creator is a tool for creating automated mailing lists based on the roster information for a class or class section. It allows professors or teaching assistants to create mailing lists for any combination of all the sections of all the classes they have roster privileges for.
To get roster privileges, contact the dean, director, or department chair of the department for the class you need access to. RAMS and Help Desk personnel will not be able to assist you with getting roster access.
1.	To create a Class Mailing List begin by going to the Class List Creator.
2.	RAMS will request you login with your NetID and NetID password. 
3.	Select the Year and Term (semester) for the class that you wish to create a mailing list for. Once both are selected, then select Get Course Sections. If you have access to classes for the selected year and term, you will be presented with a list of course sections and additional fields to fill in: 
o	Course Sections: This list contains the course sections you have roster privileges for in the year and term that you selected. Select one or more course sections that you wish to be a part of this mailing list. Multiple course sections can be selected by using the Ctrl/Command or Shift keys along with your mouse.
o	List Name: Once you select a course section, it will attempt to automatically fill in this field with a suggested list name; modify if necessary. This list name will become the email address for your RAMS mailing list. The format of the email address will be listname@rams.rutgers.edu. List names have the following requirements: 
	Allowed characters: A-Z, a-z, 0-9, - or _
	Must contain at least one - or _
	Must not start or end with a - or _
	Length must be between 2 and 128 characters
	Must not end with -owner
	Must not contain spaces
	List name must not already exist (our system will automatically check)
o	List Description: Once you select a course section, it will attempt to automatically fill in this field with a suggested list description; modify it if necessary.
o	Archiving Policy: The message archiving policy for this mailing list: 
	Public: All posted messages are archived and available to the public.
	Admin Only: All posted messages are archived and available to the mailing list administrators only. (recommended)
o	Posting Policy: The policy governs who can post to the list, for more details, please refer to the List Management Posting Policy for more details. Please note, that for Moderated, Admin Only, and Closed Moderated it will also require you to fill in the Moderator NetID and Moderator Email fields.
o	Owner NetID: The NetID of the person who will be the primary owner and maintainer of the list. Additional owners can be added later from the List Management Manage Administrators area.
o	Owner Email: The email address associated with the primary owner of the list, after an Owner's NetID is entered and this field receives focus, we'll attempt to automatically fill this field in with the owner's Rutgers Connect email address.
o	Moderator NetID: The NetID of the person who will be the primary moderator of the list. Additional moderators can be added later from the List Management Manage Administrators area. This field is only visible when the Posting Policy is set to Moderated, Admin Only, and Closed Moderated.
o	Moderator Email: The email address associated with the primary moderator of the list, after a Moderator's NetID is entered and this field receives focus, we'll attempt to automatically fill this field in with the moderator's Rutgers Connect email address. This field is only visible when the Posting Policy is set to Moderated, Admin Only, and Closed Moderated.
4.	If there have been no errors, you have completed creating your RAMS list.
Reusing a Class List
The Manage List Definition feature of the RAMS List Manager allows you to reuse the same list instead of having to create a new list each semester or year. For instructions on how to do this, please see the Manage List Definition section of the List Manager Documentation.
" KB0012695 Rutgers Automated Mailing Systems (RAMS) Spam filtering for RAMS "
All email sent through RAMS is processed by a spam tagging program called SpamAssassin. SpamAssassin applies a series of tests to each email that comes in. Each test has a score value that is assigned to the email. SpamAssassin combines the test results into a global score. The higher the given score, the more spam-like the message is. A score of 10.0 or more is very likely to be spam, while a message of 4.0 or less is far less likely to be spam.
List owners can turn spam filtering on or off as well as set a score threshold for each of their lists. 
Please note that it is possible for a legitimate email to end up with a high spam score, sometimes resulting in what's called a false positive. These false positives, as well as all other spam, are placed into a Moderator Queue that can be viewed by logging into the RAMS List Manager. Please see the RAMS: List Moderation documentation for more information on approving and deleting messages held for moderation.
Activating and Setting Spam Filtering
1.	To activate spam filtering and set your spam threshold value, first log into the RAMS List Manager using your NetID.
2.	Once logged in, select a list to work on.
3.	Select Manage Configuration in the Actions section.
4.	Set Spam Filter to On.
5.	Enter a number in the Spam Threshold. The Office of Information Technology (OIT) recommends starting with a spam threshold of 5, which is also the default if no number is entered. You may adjust this number at any time if you decide you need your list to be more or less restrictive.
Note: Spam filtering defaults to On for RAMS lists.
How RAMS handles Spam
For RAMS lists with spam filtering turned on, messages that meet or exceed the spam threshold number will be placed in the moderation queue for that list. This mail is not sent to the list or to owners or moderators and can only be accessed via the web interface. Please see the RAMS List Moderation documentation for information on how to view, approve, or delete these messages.
Managing Spam in the Moderation Queue
All messages in the Moderation Queue will be deleted 30 days after it arrives. This means no action is needed by owners, moderators, or editors unless you wish to review the spam to check for false positives. Please see the RAMS List Moderation documentation for instructions on how to review the messages in the Moderation Queue.
Managing Spam in the List
If spam manages to get through to the list, you can choose to lower the threshold number, making the spam filter more strict. OIT recommends lowering it one level at a time to avoid false positives. For example, don't jump from 5 to 2, but instead lower it first to 4 and, if necessary, lower it again later.
If you continue to struggle with spam reaching your list, you might wish to consider switching the list's posting privileges to more restrictive settings: going from Closed to Moderated, or Closed Moderated. If spam is overwhelming the moderators, you may wish to consider increasing security by changing your list to a Closed Moderated or Admin Only list (see the List Manager Manual for more information).
" KB0012709 Rutgers Automated Mailing Systems (RAMS) Using RAMS to send and receive messages "
Submitting a Message to a List
When submitting a message to a RAMS list, use the address as listname@rams.rutgers.edu, (where listname is the actual list name). Anyone wishing to submit a message to the list simply sends an e-mail message to the address. How the message is processed depends upon the list type:
Closed List
When a message is sent to a closed RAMS list, the message sender's e-mail address is checked against the RAMS list's members. If the sender is a member of the RAMS list, the message will be forwarded to all list members. If the message's sender is not a member of the RAMS list, the message will not be forwarded to the list and the sender will get a rejection notice informing them that they are not authorized to post to that list.
Note: A message sent by someone who subscribes to a closed list under one address but replies from another address will be rejected. People who forward their mail to another account may be affected by this.
Moderated List
Many lists are moderated. When a message is sent to a moderated RAMS list, a notification is first sent to the moderators of that list. If a moderator approves it, the message will be forwarded to everyone on the list. If it is rejected, the sender will get a rejection notice. If no action is taken, the message will remain in the moderation queue for the list until it is either approved, rejected, or deleted.
Admin Only
With this type of list, if the message's sender is not an Owner, Moderator, or Editor of the RAMS list, they will get an error message. Mail from Owners, Moderators, and Editors is held until approved. Once approved, the message will be forwarded to everyone on the list.
Closed Moderated
If the message's sender is a member of the RAMS list, it will be held until a Moderator or Administrator approves it. Messages from non-members will be rejected with an error message.
Primetime
Many lists have a Primetime setting. This setting controls when e-mails are allowed to be forwarded to a list. List Administrators do not control a list's Primetime setting but can request changes by e-mailing their campus Help Desk.
•	The default Primetime window for an official New Brunswick list is from 19:00 (7 PM) to 08:00 (AM).
•	The default Primetime window for an official Camden or Newark list is from 17:00 (5 PM) to 08:00 (AM).
Once approved, any message sent to a list with a Primetime setting is held until the Primetime window. Mail sent to a list during Primetime will be immediately delivered. Mail sent to a list outside its Primetime hours will be held until the Primetime hours.
Class lists and specific announcement lists do not have a Primetime setting. A message will be sent to these lists as soon as RAMS receives it.
Additional Resources
Further information can be found in the RAMS documentation, or you can contact the OIT Help Desk. 
" KB0012711 Rutgers Automated Mailing Systems (RAMS) Using the RAMS list manager "
The RAMS List Manager allows you to maintain each of your RAMS mailing lists.
The List Manager will require you to log in unless you have already done so. Use your Rutgers NetID and password to log in.
Once you have logged in, you will be presented with a list of RAMS lists for which you have administrative access. Select the name of the list you would like to administer to view it. 
Table of Contents
•	List Information 
o	General
o	Statistics
o	Logs
•	Actions 
o	Manage Membership
o	Display Class Membership
o	Manage Administrators
o	Manage Configuration
o	Manage List Definition
•	Pending Moderation 
o	Approve or Delete Pending Moderation Messages
•	Pending Primetime 
o	What Does Primetime Mean?
o	Release or Delete Pending Primetime Messages
•	Archive
•	Additional Information
List Information
The List Information card contains multiple tabs (some of which you may not see depending on your level of access).
General
The General tab provides a quick overview of a mailing list's configuration and settings. 
Statistics
The Statistics tab provides an overview of the mailing list's activity and includes the following metrics:
•	Number of messages: Displays the total number of messages sent through the mailing list.
•	Average number of recipients: Shows the average number of recipients per message.
•	Total number of recipients: Indicates the cumulative number of recipients for all messages.
•	Last message sent on: Provides the date and time of the most recent message sent.
•	Average message size: Displays the average size of messages in bytes.
•	Total message size: Shows the cumulative size of all messages in bytes.
Logs
The Logs tab is only visible to RAMS administrators and provides a detailed history of changes made to the mailing list.
Actions
Manage Membership
Allows mailing list owners the ability to manage the mailing list's membership exceptions list. The exception list allows owners to include additional people, along with excluding people from the mailing list. Enter a new or existing recipient's email address, select the appropriate Exception Type, and select Update.
The following exception types are available:
•	Receive and Post Emails: The user can both receive emails and post messages to the mailing list.
•	Only Receive Emails, No Posting: The user can receive emails but cannot post messages to the mailing list.
•	No Emails, Only Posting: The user cannot receive emails but can post messages to the mailing list.
•	No Emails, No Posting: The user is excluded from both receiving emails and posting messages to the mailing list.
To remove someone from the exceptions list, if necessary, search for them using the Search Exception List field. Once you have found the person you want to remove or modify, select them in the table and click Remove Selected Exceptions that will appear below the table. You can then add them back again with a new exception type if necessary. No changes are made until Save is selected.
Display Class Membership
This action is only available for class mailing lists and allows mailing list owners to display the current members of the class mailing list.
Search Members
Use the search field to quickly locate a member by name, email address or course number.
Pagination
At the bottom of the table, you will find a pagination section to navigate through multiple pages of members. You can adjust the number of rows displayed per page using the # entries per page option at the top of the table.
Export options
At the bottom of all tables, you will see two export options that allow you to download the table's list into a CSV or Excel file.
Manage Administrators
Enables mailing list owners the ability to assign or remove administrative privileges (owners, moderators, editors) for the mailing list. Add a new administrator by entering their Rutgers NetID; once you move to the email address field, it'll attempt to automatically populate that field with the person's Rutgers Connect email address. Select the new role for the administrator and then click +.
The following roles are available:
•	Owner: Makes the administrator an additional owner of the list. Owners can modify the configuration of a list, as well as moderate messages through the web interface. 
•	Moderator: Gives the administrator the ability to moderate messages that are sent to the list through email or by using the web interface. Moderators can not modify a list's configuration or membership.
•	Editors: Gives the administrator the ability to moderate messages sent to the list, but they will only be able to do this through the web interface and not through email. Editors will also not receive an email notifying them that there are messages pending moderation. Editors can not modify a list's configuration or membership.
Please note: Do not leave a list without an owner. Navigating away from the page with no owner defined may prevent you from logging back into your list's configuration pages.
Manage Configuration
Provides mailing list owners the ability to modify mailing list settings, such as archive and posting policies, spam filtering, and where mailing list error emails should be sent.
Archiving Policy    
The message archiving policy for the mailing list:
•	Public: All posted messages are archived and available to the public.
•	Admin Only: All posted messages are archived and available to the mailing list administrators only.
Posting Policy    
The policy governing who can post to the list:
•	Moderated: Posted messages are first sent to a moderator for approval. If no action is taken, the message remains in the Pending Moderation area. If approved, the message will be sent out immediately, unless the mailing list has a primetime restriction; in that case, the message is held until the release period opens.
•	Admin Only: Only owners, moderators, or editors of the mailing list can post messages; all others will receive a rejection notice. Posted messages are first sent to a moderator for approval. If approved, the message will be sent out immediately, unless the mailing list has a primetime restriction; in that case, the message is held until the release period opens.
•	Closed: Only members of the mailing list can post messages. If an email is sent from an email address not in the owners, moderators, editors, or members list, the message will be rejected, and the sender will receive a notice. Once a message is received, it will be sent out immediately, unless the mailing list has a primetime restriction; in that case, the message is held until the release period opens.
•	Closed Moderated: Only owners, moderators, editors, or members of the mailing list can send messages; all other messages will be rejected, and the sender will receive a notice. Messages sent to these mailing lists are first sent to a moderator for approval. If approved, the message will be sent out immediately, unless the mailing list has a primetime restriction, in that case the message is held until the release period opens.
•	Open: Anyone can post messages to the mailing list. Once a message is received, it will be sent out immediately unless the mailing list has a primetime restriction; in that case, the message is held until the release period opens. This option is only available to RAMS administrators, not mailing list owners, because this posting policy is dangerous and rarely allowed.
Spam Filtering    
Whether or not spam filtering should be enabled for this mailing list. It is recommended that you always leave this set to On and modify the spam threshold as necessary. Spam filtering simply hides messages that look like spam; you can still see them by using the Show Spam Messages sliders in the Pending Moderation area.
Spam Threshold    
A numeric value that determines at what level a message should be considered spam. To learn more about using the spam filter with RAMS, read Setting a Spam Filter in RAMS.
Errors Setting    
If there is an error notification that needs to be sent, if this setting is set to Owners, all owners of the mailing list will be sent the error notification. When this is set to Ignore, no error notifications will be sent by this mailing list.
Manage List Definition
This action is exclusive to class mailing lists and allows creators to update the course sections that define the membership of an existing class mailing list.
1.	Select the new Year and Term (semester) for the class and click Get Course Sections.
2.	If you have access to classes for the selected year and term, you will be presented with a list of course sections.
3.	Select one or more course sections that you wish to be a part of this mailing list. Multiple course sections can be selected by using the Ctrl/Command or Shift keys along with your mouse. 
4.	Click Save to update your class mailing list.
Pending Moderation
The Pending Moderation card lists messages awaiting approval by the list moderator. By default, messages that are considered spam are not displayed. Turn the Show Spam Messages slider to the on position to see messages flagged as spam. The table supports pagination, allowing you to adjust the number of rows displayed (entries per page) and navigate between pages (bottom right of the table). Use the Search Moderation field to find messages by subject or sender. Select View next to a message to read its full content. If you wish to export the table, select CSV or Excel at the bottom of the table. If you wish to export all messages in the table, first change the Entries per page at the top of the table to All and then export. Use the Refresh icon above the table to refresh the table and load the latest messages.
Approve or Delete Pending Moderation Messages
To approve or delete messages, select the desired messages in the table by clicking on the row. The row will become highlighted. Click again to deselect a row. Once you have selected all the messages you wish to approve or delete, click Approve Selected Messages or Delete Selected Messages below the table. Those two buttons will only appear after messages are selected in the table. If you would like to delete all messages in the table, simply select Delete All Messages.
Pending Primetime
The Pending Primetime card lists messages scheduled for release during the primetime hours (Release Period). The table supports pagination, allowing you to adjust the number of rows displayed (entries per page) and navigate between pages (bottom right of the table). Use the Search Moderation field to find messages by subject or sender. Select View next to a message to read its full content. If you wish to export the table, select CSV or Excel at the bottom of the table. If you wish to export all messages in the table, first change the Entries per page at the top of the table to All and then export. Use the Refresh icon above the table to refresh the table and load the latest messages.
What Does Primetime Mean?
Many RAMS mailing lists have a primetime setting (release period) that controls when emails can be sent. If a message is sent outside the primetime window and does not require moderation, it will be held and not released until the primetime window is entered. Similarly, for moderated emails, even if a moderator or owner approves the message, it will still be held until the primetime window is entered if the mailing list has a primetime setting. Class mailing lists and some announcement lists do not have this setting. The default primetime for New Brunswick mailing lists is 7 PM to 8 AM, and for Camden and Newark mailing lists, it's 5 PM to 8 AM.
Release or Delete Pending Primetime Messages
This section is primarily for emergency messages that need to be sent outside the regular schedule (Release Period). Owners, moderators, and editors can release these messages by selecting the desired messages in the table by clicking on a row. The row will become highlighted. Click again to deselect a row. Once you have selected all the messages you wish to release or delete, select Release Selected Messages or Delete Selected Messages below the table. Those two buttons will only appear after messages are selected in the table.
Archive
The Archive card provides access to past messages sent through the mailing list. Owners, moderators, and editors can filter messages by date range or search for specific messages using the Search Archive box. The archive includes details such as the date, subject, sender, number of recipients, and spam level, along with who approved and released the message. Select View next to a message to read its full content. If you wish to export the table, select CSV or Excel at the bottom of the table. If you wish to export all messages in the table, first change the Entries per page at the top of the table to All and then export. Use the Refresh icon above the table to refresh the table and load the latest messages.
Additional Information
For additional information, including the latest updates to RAMS, view the RAMS documentation. 
" KB0013566 Rutgers Connect """Managed by Your Organization"" Troubleshooting Guide" "
When users sign into Office applications on personal devices, a popup will ask users if they want to allow their organization to manage their device. In the event that a user contacts you with an issue regarding not being able to change system settings, or an inability to open various Microsoft applications, it is likely because they left that box checked and clicked "OK." Regardless, these issues can be fixed by doing the following: 
1.	Remove the account from the computer by going to Settings > Accounts > Access Work or School. Their Rutgers account should be listed here. Click the Disconnect button to remove it.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Have users reopen a Microsoft application like Teams, but this time when the popup about allowing devices to be managed appears, select No, sign in to this app only as shown below.

     Error! Filename not specified.
 
For more information on managing device registrations across different Microsoft systems, see our guide on managing your Connect devices and licenses. 
" KB0019433 Rutgers Connect Apple Mail Connectivity Issue - 04/05/2026 "
Overview
Connect Support was made aware of an issue affecting newly enrolled devices in the Rutgers Connect tenant. These devices are experiencing failures when attempting to connect Apple Mail to Rutgers Connect work email accounts. The issue appears immediately after device enrollment. 
 
This Apple Mail connection issue may affect you if:
•	You recently enrolled an iPhone or iPad using Microsoft Intune
•	Your device is registered through Mobile Device Management (MDM)
•	You use Apple Mail for Microsoft 365 work email
•	Microsoft Authenticator is not installed on your iOS device
Common Symptoms
•	Work email does not sync in Apple Mail after device enrollment
•	Repeated sign?in prompts that never complete
•	Apple Mail account setup stalls or returns an authentication error
•	Work email, calendar, or contacts do not appear or load
Important Application Distinction
•	Company Portal: Used to enroll your device and verify compliance with company policies.
•	Microsoft Authenticator: Required to reach device compliance, does NOT need to be logged into/used.
Both applications are required on iOS devices for Apple Mail to complete authentication and sync work email successfully.
Fixing Apple Mail
The resolution we found is to install the Microsoft Authenticator application from the Intune Company Portal on the affected device. Once the Authenticator is installed, Apple Mail will complete the authentication handshake and begin syncing email normally. You do not need to log in to the Microsoft Authenticator application; simply have it downloaded on the device.? 
1.	On your Apple device, you can find and open the Company Portal application. This was installed when you enrolled your device with Intune. 
2.	Sign in to Company Portal with your work credentials (your work email address and password) if prompted. 
3.	Once signed in, tap or click the Apps section in Company Portal. This section lists all applications that your organization has made available. 
4.	Locate Microsoft Authenticator in the apps list. You can use the search bar at the top if needed, and search for "Authenticator" or look for it in the Category “Productivity”. 
5.	Tap Install (iOS/iPadOS) next to Microsoft Authenticator. Company Portal will begin downloading and installing the application. 
6.	Wait for the installation to complete. You will see a confirmation once the app has been successfully installed on your device. 
7.	Go to Settings > Apps > Mail > Mail Accounts > Rutgers Connect and sign in. 
8.	Return to Apple Mail. If the app is still showing an authentication prompt or error, remove the work account and re-add it: go to Settings > Mail > Accounts, remove your work account, then add it again using your work email address. 
9.	Apple Mail should now be able to complete authentication and begin syncing your work email, calendar, and contacts. 
Verify the Fix
After completing the above steps, confirm the following to ensure the issue is resolved:
•	Microsoft Authenticator is installed and visible on your device's home screen/app library 
•	Apple Mail shows your work inbox with emails loading successfully 
•	Sending a test email from Apple Mail completes without error 
•	Calendar events from your M365 account appear in the Apple Calendar app (if configured) 
If you re-add your account and are still seeing issues, try rebooting your device after installing Microsoft Authenticator, then attempt to add the account again in Apple Mail. 
Support
If the steps above do not resolve the issue, contact your IT Help Desk and provide the following information: 
•	Device type and OS version (e.g., iPhone 15, iOS 17.4) 
•	Date and time that you received the error message
•	Serial number of the device, especially if the user has multiple devices registered. 
•	A description of the error or behavior you are seeing
•	Confirmation that Microsoft Authenticator has been installed via Company Portal 
Please note: Connect Support will be automatically pushing the authenticator application to iOS devices at a later date. This fix addresses issues on iOS devices. 
" KB0015951 Rutgers Connect Bookings With Me "
Bookings with Me is a web-based personal scheduling page with free/busy information from your Rutgers Connect calendar. This allows others to schedule a meeting or appointment with you based on the meeting type you set up, for ease of scheduling for all parties based on availability and preferences. Email confirmation, updating, or canceling the meeting can be done from the Bookings with Me page. 
Setup View 
From the Bookings with me page, you can set up a private or public meeting to fit your needs as the organizer. Public meetings will appear on your booking page, whereas Private meetings will only be viewable to those who have the link to them.
There is also the ability to choose between a Teams meeting or another location. Zoom or Webex calls can be added by linking them within the description. 
With the advanced options, you can choose how much of a buffer time you would like before and after the meeting time, as well as dictate the limit to the start time.
 
     Error! Filename not specified.
 
 
     Error! Filename not specified.
 
Attendee View 
From the attendee's view, you can choose which times you would like to select from what has been provided by the organizer, as well as provide a name, email and any notes for the listed meeting. An email confirmation code will be sent to the email address used for the booking to confirm that the email address is valid. 
 
      Error! Filename not specified.
 
      Error! Filename not specified.
 
Once the meeting is booked, the attendee should receive an email with a 6-digit confirmation code that will appear as being sent from the booking's creator. After that confirmation code is confirmed, the meeting should be all set to go.
" KB0012469 Rutgers Connect Changing your default email address in Rutgers Connect "
When a Rutgers Connect account is created, the default email address the account will send mail from is in the format (netid@domain.rutgers.edu). This is referred to as your account's Primary Address. Some users may prefer to change their primary address to a personalized email address (john.doe@rutgers.edu). Your Rutgers Connect account can only be configured for one primary address at a time. You can change and update this address at any time; however, you will only be able to send email from your primary address.
To change your primary address in Rutgers Connect, please follow the directions below. Changes may take up to 2 hours to take effect. 
1.	Go to the NetID Management page and click on Manage Email Addresses.
2.	Log in with your NetID and NetID password.
3.	Scroll down to the Rutgers Connect Account Information section and choose a primary Email Address from the drop-down box.
4.	Click Update.
How to set your primary address in OWA and Mail Clients:
•	Outlook Web Access (OWA) will automatically update your default address to be the primary address you selected.
•	Outlook will automatically start sending mail from the primary address you selected. Please note that the "From" field in Outlook will still show as your sign-in address (netid@domain.rutgers.edu), but your mail will be sent from the primary address you selected.
Please note you can log into your Rutgers Connect account with your primary address or your netid@domain.rutgers.edu.
If you would like confirmation on what your Rutgers Connect sign-in information is, please go to the NetID Management page and click on Manage Email Addresses. Your sign-in name can be found in the Rutgers Connect Account Information section.
The Rutgers Connect Account Information page will also show you the secondary addresses your account can receive mail at in Rutgers Connect. You will not be able to send mail using these addresses unless you select one of them to be your primary address.
" KB0019454 Rutgers Connect Clipchamp "
Microsoft Clipchamp is available for all Faculty and Staff through their Rutgers Connect accounts. 
Clipchamp is Microsoft’s supported video editing tool and works with content created across Microsoft 365. With it, you can edit items such as PowerPoint screen recordings, Teams voice or video recordings, and other video files stored in OneDrive or SharePoint. The tool supports basic editing tasks, such as trimming clips, combining recordings, adding text or captions, and exporting finished videos.
You can access Clipchamp from the Microsoft 365 app launcher or from the Clipchamp website. You may also see options to open or edit certain recordings in Clipchamp as part of existing workflows (for example, after creating a screen recording). No separate installation is needed for web access, and basic functionality is available automatically.
Microsoft’s support documentation covers common scenarios and can be helpful for first?time users.
" KB0012478 Rutgers Connect Common use cases for SharePoint "
The right collaboration environment is crucial for department performance, engagement, and innovation. SharePoint’s versatility allows the service to be utilized for a large variety of objectives ranging from basic information storage to complex project dashboards.
Table of Contents
•	Content Management
•	Intranets
•	Business process Automation/Workflow Management
•	Project Management
Content Management
SharePoint allows users to create, edit, submit, approve and publish 2.5 TB worth of content for a given site collection or group. This content can be shared and made viewable to specified users. Using built-in document libraries and lists, users can organize where they store their content within a site. Content can consist of a variety of types (text, video, graphics, audio). The most important content management capabilities of SharePoint include:
•	Versioning
•	Real-time collaboration
•	Approvals
•	Indexing
•	Search
Intranets
SharePoint excels as an intranet platform as it offers a wide variety of out-of-the-box functionalities. These capabilities let users design an effective intranet for their department with ease. These features consist of:
•	Branded home page
•	Multi-functional web parts that integrate with various Microsoft services
•	Custom navigation
•	Flexible content sharing options
•	Modern/classic team and communication sites
•	Social features (communities, forums, media galleries)
•	Mobile access
Error! Filename not specified.
Business process Automation/Workflow Management
SharePoint supports business process management as it offers a variety of options for implementing, maintaining, and executing workflows. Many common workflow processes come built-in to the service such as getting approvals, collecting feedback, and acquiring signatures. Furthermore, SharePoint integrates with a variety of Office 365 tools (Word, OneNote, OneDrive) which facilitates the creation of content-related workflows. Users can create custom workflows through SharePoint’s integration with Power Automate (formerly Microsoft Flow).
Project Management
SharePoint is a popular and practical solution for project management, as it allows a project’s information to be stored in a central place. Using the out-of-the-box project management features, SharePoint holds the capabilities for successful project visibility, reporting, collaboration, and delivery. A SharePoint site acts as home for a user's project information and content. A SharePoint site collection collects multiple projects into a project portfolio. Within these sites, SharePoint lists help organize project information while web parts make reporting easy. Additionally, users can use the built-in project site template or integrate Microsoft Project for their project management needs.
Error! Filename not specified.
Please be aware that Microsoft will officially retire Project Online and all PWA sites and project data will become permanently inaccessible on September 30, 2026. Microsoft recommends transitioning to Project for the Web / Planner (new Planner experience) for ongoing project management. 
" KB0012480 Rutgers Connect Connecting and using shared mailboxes and calendars on Rutgers Connect "
Rutgers Connect (Office 365) offers you the ability to create shared mailboxes, which can be used to contact groups of people. Shared mailboxes make it easy for a specific group of people to monitor and send email from a common account. One of the great things about using a shared mailbox is that anyone who has access to the shared mailbox also has full access to the calendar. You can create, edit, and delete events in the calendar. Use the shared calendar just as you would use your own calendar.
Instructions on how to access shared mailboxes and calendars can be found in the links below:
•	Directly Accessing a Resource You Own
•	How to Share Mail on a Resource Account
•	How to Share a Resource Account Calendar
•	How to View a Shared Calendar
•	How to View a Shared Mail Folder
•	Send From an Alternate Email Address in Outlook
" KB0017401 Rutgers Connect Creating and updating Email signatures in Connect "
Creating or updating your signature
To create your email signature on Rutgers Connect, follow the instructions below. You may also create and update your signature on both the Classic and New versions of Outlook for Windows or Outlook for Mac. 
1.	Log in to Rutgers Connect and click the gear icon at the top right-hand side.
2.	Navigate to Mail > Compose and Reply > Email Signature.
3.	Create your signature using these recommendations: 
o	Type and format your signature inside the Outlook signature window. Creating your signature in an outside program (like Word) and copying into the window may cause formatting issues. 
o	Use a common font such as Calibri or Times New Roman. Other fonts may not display correctly.
o	Use a single font color such as black or gray.
o	Example signature format: 
	First Name Last Name (pronouns optional)
Job title
Department/group/unit
Specific campus and/or Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Preferred contact phone number
Office address (optional)
Website/social media links (optional)
4.	You may also add a Rutgers logotype to your signature. Instructions on how to get a Rutgers logotype for use in your signature is listed in the section below.  
1.	Click in your signature where you want the logotype to appear.
2.	Click on the Insert Image icon in the toolbar.
3.	Navigate to the file you want to use, as described in the next section, and click Open. 
4.	Resize the image as needed. 
5.	Click Save. 
Getting the Rutgers logotype for use in your signature
Using the standard Rutgers University logotype
1.	Go to the Email Signatures section of the Rutgers University Stationery and Templates page. 
2.	Select the desired logotype format.
3.	This will bring you to a SharePoint page where you can download the .SVG file to be used in your email signature. The all Red option is best for both light and dark mode on devices. The Red and Black option is most visible in light mode on devices. 
Using your departmental specific logotype
If your department has a specific logotype (ex: Office of Information Technology, Mason Gross School of the Arts, New Jersey Medical School, Office for Research, etc.) you have to first obtain it from the Rutgers University Signature Generator. Note that the Signature Generator does not create a signature for you; it only provides the logotype file to be used in your signature. It's recommended to use the .SVG file type for an email signature. 
1.	Log in to the Rutgers University Signature Generator.
2.	Click Search to look through the existing approved logotypes. 
3.	Locate the department you are in and click Download Package.  
o	Any packages that are labeled "(vertical R)" do not contain the email signature logotype. Download a package not labeled as vertical instead. 
o	If your department is not listed, you may return to the previous page and click Request to fill out the form requesting a logotype be created for your department. 
4.	Open the .zip file that was downloaded. 
5.	Open the E-SIGNATURE folder and use the .svg file.
" KB0012488 Rutgers Connect Customize your SharePoint website "
View Microsoft's guide on how to customize your SharePoint site.
" KB0012494 Rutgers Connect Directly accessing a Resource you own in Rutgers Connect "
Outlook Web Access (OWA) Login
1.	Log into Rutgers Connect.
2.	Click on your portrait in the top right and select Open another mailbox.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Enter the full resource email (e.g., resource@connect.rutgers.edu) and click Open.
4.	A new tab will open for the Mail of the resource. You can use the launcher in the top left to switch to the resource’s Calendar, OneDrive, or other apps.
Outlook Desktop App
1.	Open Outlook and choose the File tab in the ribbon.
2.	Click on Add Account. In the box that opens, type in the email address of your resource and click Connect.

     Error! Filename not specified.

      Error! Filename not specified.
3.	You will be taken to the CAS login and after successful login, the mailbox will be added to the left pane of Outlook.
" KB0017382 Rutgers Connect Does the Microsoft Intune Company Portal App support Chromebooks or Chrome OS? "
Chrome OS is not supported by Microsoft Endpoint Manager (also known as Intune).
 
" KB0012503 Rutgers Connect Email and calendar setup for Rutgers Connect "
These articles go through the recommended instructions that should be used to set up Rutgers Connect (Office 365).
•	Setting Up Outlook 365 on Mac
•	Setting Up Outlook 365 with Rutgers Connect
•	Setting up Apple Mail and Apple Calendar to Rutgers Connect
•	Setting up an Android Device With Rutgers Connect
" KB0012504 Rutgers Connect Email encryption for Rutgers Connect "
Under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), all communications containing Protected Health Information (PHI) must be encrypted. To ensure the confidentiality of private information sent via email and comply with HIPAA privacy regulations, Rutgers Connect uses multiple approaches to keep your information safe.
All email sent by users with PHI flags is automatically protected with TLS Secure email. TLS is a cryptographic protocol that provides security between email servers. Most email servers are configured to receive email sent via TLS. Rutgers is aware of some common email servers that are not equipped for TLS. If a PHI-flagged person sends an email to one of these known email servers, Rutgers Connect will automatically use the built-in capabilities of Office 365's Office Message Encryption (OME) to protect your email.
If a PHI-flagged person attempts to send an email to an email server that does not support TLS and is not known to Rutgers Connect, the sender will receive a bounce-back. Please review the following article to learn more about what to expect if you encounter this issue.
Please note: For backward compatibility with our previous encryption service, Zix Corporation, any message containing the keyword “ZIXSECURE” in the subject or body and leaving Rutgers Connect will have OME encryption applied. OIT does not recommend using keywords to force encryption. The keyword feature has been retained for specialized cases and may be removed completely in the future, as it is being replaced by OME's encryption features.
Secure messaging is not just a government mandate; it is a practical way to conduct business. Email is not a private conversation; unencrypted email messages can be intercepted and read. Users can also protect emails that do not contain Protected Health Information by using the options provided by Office Message Encryption (OME).
The following documentation pages explain how Office Message Encryption (OME) works.
•	Recipient Experience
•	Sending Encrypted Email
" KB0012506 Rutgers Connect Enabling mobile device management on Android for Work on Android Devices "
If you set up Rutgers Connect on your Android prior to February 4, 2019, you may not have the Android for Work environment set up as described below. If you do wish to use Android for Work, you can remove and re-add your account following the directions below.
Make sure your device is completely up to date and on a version that supports the Office Suite before attempting to set up your Android for Work profile.
For RBHS affiliates: Before attempting to enable a device, you must check to see if there is data stored in the removable media card in the phone. Files stored in the removable media card must be copied to another storage location before attempting to enable a device. Files in the media card may become lost if not saved at this time. It is recommended that those files be copied from the removable media card to a computer, as there may not be enough internal storage on the phone.
________________________________________
Table of Contents
•	Adding Rutgers Connect and the Android for Work Profile 
o	Additional Troubleshooting
•	Removing Rutgers Connect and the Android for Work Profile 
o	Additional Troubleshooting
Adding Rutgers Connect and the Android for Work Profile
To set up a Rutgers Connect account on your Android device, first download and install the Company Portal app, which will create an Android for Work environment. This creates a dedicated work environment on your device where you can access protected content while keeping it separate from your personal data. 
If you are having problems with an existing configuration of Rutgers Connect on your device, please remove the account, then add it again using these steps. 
1.	To begin, open the Play Store app. Search for “Intune” and Install the Intune Company Portal app.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Once you have downloaded the app, select Open, and you will see the Company Portal login screen. Select Sign in.
3.	Enter your full Rutgers Connect login email address, which will be your netid@domain.rutgers.edu > Next > enter your NetID password > Sign In.

     Error! Filename not specified.      Error! Filename not specified.
4.	You will see the loading screen below, and eventually be prompted to continue the setup. Select Continue.

     Error! Filename not specified.     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	IMPORTANT NOTICE FOR RBHS USERS: The following steps will walk you through securing the mobile device. Samsung/Android devices ship with a removable media card. Any files stored in the removable media card will be lost after enrolling and securing the Android device. Before attempting to enable a device you must check to see if there is data stored in the removable media card in the phone. Files stored in the removable media card must be copied to another storage location. It is recommended those files are copied from the removable media card to a computer as there may not be enough internal storage on the phone. The removable media card will no longer be accessible after the device has been secured with the Mobile Device Management (MDM) system.
6.	You will see Rutgers University privacy information, specifically what information can and cannot see on your device. Select Continue. You will also be prompted to allow work profile permissions and encrypt your device. Select Next.

     Error! Filename not specified.     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	You will then be prompted to set up the Android for the "Work" profile. Select Accept and Continue.

     Error! Filename not specified.
8.	You will see a series of loading screens as your device sets up a work profile.

     Error! Filename not specified.     Error! Filename not specified.

     Error! Filename not specified.     Error! Filename not specified.
9.	You will next see a screen showing that the work profile has been created and that now you should activate it and update device settings. Select Continue.

     Error! Filename not specified. Error! Filename not specified.Error! Filename not specified.Error! Filename not specified.
10.	Next, you will see one final screen to finish registering the device with Rutgers University. Select Done.

     Error! Filename not specified.
11.	When you look at your apps drawer, you will now see two different tabs: Personal and Work. If you use a Samsung Android device, you will see a Workspace folder that contains these apps. All of your protected work apps will be under the Work tab or Workspace folder, and you will notice that they have a small briefcase icon in the bottom right corner. This indicates that the app is a "Work" app, and is especially important as you will have two copies of some apps, such as Outlook, Contacts and Calendar. The data in these applications, such as your contacts, will be separate from the Personal space. You will not see your saved contacts in the workspace contacts application or your personal calendar in the workspace calendar application. Only the apps in the Work tab can access your Rutgers services. You can pin these apps to your home screen like any other app on your device.

     Error! Filename not specified.     Error! Filename not specified.
12.	Outlook for Android will immediately download once you complete device registration, so all you need to do is find the app on your phone and log in using your Connect credentials
Additional Troubleshooting
If you run into issues while setting up the Android for Work profile and you are sure that you do not have a low battery, weak internet connection, missing updates, or automatic updates are turned off, these tips may be of assistance.
•	If on Step 8, the blue "You're Halfway There" screen does not progress after several minutes, there may have been an issue switching between the Personal Intune Company Portal and the Work Intune Company Portal app. You should be able to exit the running Intune Company Portal app, go into your apps and find the Work apps mentioned in Step 11. Here you will find the Work Intune Company Portal app. Launch it to continue right after the "You're Halfway There" screen in Step 8.
•	If, after step 7 of setting up your device, the Intune Company Portal app is unable to create the Work Profile, try the following steps:
1.	Open system Settings and go to Google Services (just below Accounts and backup).
2.	Select Set up & restore > Set up your work profile.
3.	When prompted to scan or enter code, open the Company Portal app instead > Sign In > BEGIN.
4.	Tap CONTINUE on the privacy screen.
5.	Tap Agree on the Privacy Policy and then follow the prompts to complete the setup.
Removing Rutgers Connect and the Android for Work Profile
1.	In order to remove your Connect account and, subsequently, your Android for Work profile, you will need to open your Intune Company Portal app. When it loads, you should be presented with a list of your devices.

     Error! Filename not specified.
     
2.	Tap whichever device you are trying to troubleshoot, and a page with information about the device will load. From here, tap the 3 dots in the upper right-hand corner next to the pencil icon. This will give you the option to cleanly Remove Device.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	You should be signed out of the Intune Company Portal app at this time, and should you ever want to add your work account again, all you’d need to do is go into the Play Store and enable the Intune Company Portal app like you did initially and go through the setup steps again.
Additional Troubleshooting
If the above methods do not work to remove your account so you can add it again, you may also try the following steps:
•	Open the Company Portal app on the Personal tab (or not in the Workspace app on Samsung devices) and you should be greeted with the “You’re Halfway There!” screen. (If the Company Portal app can’t be found on the device's Personal profile, you may need to go to the Play Store and either re-download it or re-enable it.) At the bottom of this screen, click on the option Already removed work profile?. Follow the prompts to remove your existing Work profile, and it will give you the option to log into the Company Portal again. As you go through the process to re-initialize the Company Portal, you will be greeted with an extra step asking to uninstall an existing workspace. Agree to the uninstallation and follow the rest of the steps.
•	If you have additional work accounts on a Samsung device, you may be able to remove just your Rutgers Connect account from the Account settings under the Workspace Settings page.
•	Alternatively, you can try the method below to remove your account:
1.	Go to the Settings app on your device. You can find it in the app drawer if you have not pinned it to your home screen.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	From Settings > select Accounts.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	From the Account screen, you will see your Rutgers Connect account. It may show as below, with a string of characters followed by @android-for-work.gserviceaccount.com or as your Rutgers Connect email address. Tap the account from this screen.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	From the account detail screen, select Remove Account.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	If you are using a Samsung device, this process may be slightly different. If you do not see your work account following the above steps, open the Workspace app on your Samsung device.

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Once you have the Workspace app open, tap the three small dots in the top right corner to open the menu, and select "Workplace settings."

     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	From Workplace Settings, scroll until you see Uninstall, then select this. You will see a warning that this will delete all of your workplace content; you may choose to Uninstall.

     Error! Filename not specified.      Error! Filename not specified.
8.	This will have successfully removed your Rutgers Connect account. If you removed it because you were experiencing issues, you can use the directions above to add it again.
" KB0012507 Rutgers Connect Enabling mobile device management on iOS devices "
Table of Contents
•	Intune Company Portal for iOS/iPadOS
•	Enabling Mobile Device Management
•	Troubleshooting
•	Removing Mobile Device Management
Intune Company Portal for iOS/iPadOS
Minimum supported versions of iOS and iPadOS can be found in the supported versions of the Microsoft Office Suite documentation.
For a new device signing into Intune Company Portal for the first time, you must accept a client certificate when signing into the iOS Mail Client for the first time.
Below is an example of the presentation of a client certificate when signing into the mail client.
Error! Filename not specified.
If you already have Intune Company Portal installed on your device, you may receive a notice to update the password to reconnect to your email account. You may also be prompted to accept a Client Certificate. In the unlikely event that the device stops receiving email, it would be best to re-enroll your iOS or iPadOS device.
If your device needs or has pending iOS or iPadOS upgrades, we strongly suggest removing mobile device management from the device first. It is recommended that you back up your Apple device before initiating iOS/iPadOS updates. Once the update is complete, you can reinstall MDM. Restoring the device with the MDM already installed can cause issues when re-registering the device and corrupt the backup. Instructions are below on choosing a backup for your respective Apple devices. 
Once the Intune Company Portal has been deregistered and uninstalled, back up the device to iTunes or iCloud and upgrade it to the latest version supported on your device. Once your device is fully upgraded, reinstall the Intune Company Portal and register as a new one. 
Choosing a Backup Method for your Apple Device
Enabling Mobile Device Management
Enabling mobile device management will allow you to access your Rutgers Connect email, calendar, contacts, and other University data through their native iOS apps.
1.	Open the Settings app on your iOS device and navigate to Mail > Accounts. Check whether any existing accounts are connecting to Office 365/Exchange.
2.	If an Exchange mail account is found, look under the Server field. If it is connecting to "outlook.office365.com", delete it. Failure to delete this may cause the compliance check to fail or to get stuck on the "Checking compliance" step. New mail account settings will be downloaded automatically after the device is set up.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Open the App Store on your iOS device. Search for Intune Company Portal and install the app. An Apple ID account will be required to download it.

     Error! Filename not specified.     
4.	Once installed, open the app and sign in with your email in the format of NetID@domain.rutgers.edu

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Follow the steps on the screen to begin enrolling your device. Click Begin > Continue > Continue > Enroll
6.	When prompted, open the Settings app. There should be an Install Downloaded Profile prompt with a red circle badge. You have 8 minutes to install the profile or the badge will disappear. After about 15 minutes, the profile is removed from the device, and enrollment must be restarted. You can also locate the profile while in your Settings app by navigating to General > Profiles (or VPN & Device Management). 
o	Note: This section of the Settings app may be named differently depending on the profiles currently on the device.
7.	Follow the prompts to install the profile and complete device enrollment. You may be required to change the device’s passcode during this process.  
1.	Click Install on the upper right-hand of the Management Profile details page, you may be prompted to enter your Device's passcode. 
2.	Click Install > Install > Trust 
3.	You'll then see a confirmation that the Profile was installed. Click Done

     Error! Filename not specified. Error! Filename not specified.Error! Filename not specified.

Note: Once a Management Profile is installed, the section name changes to “VPN & Device Management”.
8.	Open the Intune Company Portal app, then follow the prompts to complete the setup.  
1.	It will check that your device meets the compliance requirements. 
2.	Click Continue, then Done to complete the setup process. 
9.	Your device is now secured and granted access to e-mail, calendar, contacts, and University data.
10.	The Office 365 Exchange mail settings will be automatically configured in the native iOS Mail app.
Troubleshooting
1.	If the compliance check screen remains open for more than 5 minutes, force-close the Company Portal app.
2.	Proceed to steps 1 and 2 to check and remove any existing Office 365 account configurations.
3.	After completing steps 1 and 2, reopen the Company Portal app and follow the prompts to continue enrollment.
4.	When opening the Company Portal app, you can force the device to check compliance by tapping on the device and Check Settings.
5.	If enrollment stops and remains on this screen, tap the refresh icon to continue.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Intune Company Portal checks in to the Microsoft cloud daily, but if it stops checking in, the device will be listed as non-compliant after 30 days. On iOS devices running low on storage, iOS will remove applications that have not been manually launched in a while via its Offload Unused Apps feature. This eventually leads the device to be marked as non-compliant, and causes Email, Teams, OneDrive, and other apps to stop working. To fix this, just re-download the Intune Company Portal app and sign in again. This should re-initiate checking in and mark the device as compliant once again. Learn how to check your iOS device's storage.
Alternatively, you can try the following:
1.	Uninstall Intune Company Portal by going to your iPhone Settings > General > iPhone Storage > Comp Portal > Delete App. Then go to iPhone Settings > General > VPN & Device Management.
2.	If you see a Management Profile, go into it and click Remove Management.
3.	Reinstall the Intune Company Portal App. 
4.	Ensure you have the Microsoft Authenticator app installed in addition to the Intune Company Portal app.  
o	If the app Microsoft Authenticator is already installed on the device, please do the following: 
1.	Make sure you have the latest Microsoft Authenticator from the store. 
2.	Open Microsoft Authenticator; it doesn't matter if you don't use it for anything else.
3.	From the hamburger menu, choose Help > Reset your accounts.
4.	When the warning appears, confirm you want to proceed. 
o	If the app Microsoft Authenticator is not installed on the device, please do the following: 
1.	On your Apple device, locate and open the Intune Company Portal app. This was installed when you enrolled your device with Intune. 
2.	Sign in to Company Portal with your work credentials (your work email address and password) if prompted. 
3.	Once signed in, tap or click the Apps section in Company Portal. 
4.	Locate Microsoft Authenticator in the apps list. You can use the search bar at the top if needed, or look for "Authenticator" in the Category “Productivity”. 
5.	Tap Install next to Microsoft Authenticator. Company Portal will begin downloading and installing the application. 
6.	Wait for the installation to complete. You will see a confirmation once the app has been successfully installed on your device. 
5.	You do not need to log in to the Microsoft Authenticator application; simply have it downloaded on the device.? 
6.	Go to your iPhone/iPad Settings > Apps > Mail > Mail Accounts > Rutgers Connect and sign in. 
7.	Return to the Apple Mail app. If the app is still showing an authentication prompt or error, remove the work account and re-add it: go to Settings > Mail > Accounts, remove your work account, then add it again using your work email address. 
8.	Apple Mail should now be able to complete authentication and begin syncing your work email, calendar, and contacts. 
Additional information can be found in the article Apple Mail Connectivity Issue - 04/05/2026.
Removing Mobile Device Management
Follow the guide on removing mobile device management if you need to uninstall. 
" KB0018230 Rutgers Connect Enabling mobile device management on iOS for Work on iOS Devices "
Table of Contents
•	Intune Company Portal for iOS/iPadOS
•	Enabling Mobile Device Management 
o	Troubleshooting
•	Removing Mobile Device Management on iOS devices 
o	Troubleshooting
Intune Company Portal for iOS/iPadOS
The minimum supported version of iOS and iPadOS is listed in the supported versions section of the Microsoft Office Suite documentation.
For a new device signing into Intune Company Portal for the first time, you must accept a client certificate when signing into the iOS Mail Client for the first time.
If you already have Intune Company Portal installed on your device, you may receive a notice to update the password to reconnect to your email account. You may also be prompted to accept a Client Certificate. In the unlikely event that the device stops receiving email, it would be best to re-enroll your iOS or iPadOS device.
If your device needs or has pending iOS or iPadOS upgrades, we strongly suggest removing mobile device management first. It is recommended that you back up your Apple device before initiating iOS/iPadOS updates, and when that is complete, you can reinstall MDM. Restoring the device with the MDM included in the restore can cause issues when trying to re-register the device and may corrupt the backup. Instructions are below on choosing a backup for your respective Apple devices. 
Once the Intune Company Portal has been deregistered and uninstalled, back up the device to iTunes or iCloud and upgrade it to the latest supported on your device. Once your device is fully upgraded, reinstall the Intune Company Portal and register as a new one. 
Choosing a Backup Method for your Apple Device
Enabling Mobile Device Management
Enabling mobile device management will allow you to access your Rutgers Connect email, calendar, contacts, and other University data through their native iOS apps.
1.	Open the Settings app on your iOS device and navigate to Mail > Accounts. Check if there are any existing accounts connecting to Office 365/Exchange.
2.	If an Exchange mail account is found, look under the Server field. If it is connecting to outlook.office365.com, delete it. Failure to delete this may cause the compliance check to fail or get stuck on the "Checking compliance" step. New mail account settings will be downloaded automatically after the device is set up.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Open the App Store on your iOS device. Search for Intune Company Portal and install the app. An Apple ID is required to download it.

     Error! Filename not specified.     
4.	Once installed, open the app and sign in with your email in the format of NetID@domain.rutgers.edu

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Follow the steps on the screen to begin enrolling your device. Click Begin > Continue > Continue > Enroll
6.	When prompted, open the Settings app. There should be an Install Downloaded Profile prompt with a red circle badge. You have 8 minutes to install the profile or the badge will disappear. After about 15 minutes, the profile is removed from the device, and enrollment must be restarted. You can also locate the profile while in your Settings app by navigating to General > Profiles (or VPN & Device Management). 
o	Note: This section of the Settings app may be named differently depending on profiles currently on the device.
7.	Follow the prompts to install the profile and complete device enrollment. You may be required to change the device’s passcode during this process.  
1.	Click Install on the upper right-hand of the Management Profile details page, you may be prompted to enter your Device's passcode. 
2.	Click Install > Install > Trust 
3.	You'll then see a confirmation that the Profile was installed. Click Done.
4.	     Error! Filename not specified. Error! Filename not specified. Error! Filename not specified.

Note: Once a Management Profile is installed, the section name changes to “VPN & Device Management”.
8.	Open the Intune Company Portal app and follow the prompts to complete the setup process.  
1.	It will check that your device meets the compliance requirements. 
2.	Click Continue, then Done to complete the setup process. 

Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Your device is now secured and granted access to e-mail, calendar, contacts and University data.
10.	The Office 365 Exchange mail settings will be automatically configured in the native iOS Mail app.
Troubleshooting
1.	If the compliance check screen remains for more than 5 minutes, force-close the Company Portal app.
2.	Proceed to steps 1 and 2 to check and remove any existing Office 365 account configurations.
3.	After completing steps 1 and 2, reopen the Company Portal app and follow the prompts to continue enrollment.
4.	When opening the Company Portal app, you can force the device to check compliance by tapping on the device and Check Settings.
5.	If enrollment stops and remains at this screen, tap the refresh icon to continue.

Error! Filename not specified. 
6.	Intune Company Portal checks in to the Microsoft cloud daily, but if it stops checking in, the device will be listed as non-compliant after 30 days. On iOS devices running low on storage, iOS will remove applications that have not been manually launched in a while via its Offload Unused Apps feature. This eventually leads the device to be marked as non-compliant, and causes Email, Teams, OneDrive, and other apps to stop working. To fix this, just re-download the Intune Company Portal app and sign in again. This should re-initiate checking in and mark the device as compliant once again. Learn how to check your iOS device's storage.
Removing Mobile Device Management on iOS devices
1.	Open the Intune Company Portal app on your iOS device. Select the "..." icon located on the Devices screen.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Select Remove Device.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Select Remove.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	On the bottom right-hand side of the screen, select More. Then select the Sign Out option.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	When given the "Sign In" prompt, your device is now successfully un-enrolled.

     Error! Filename not specified.
Troubleshooting
1.	Uninstall Intune Company Portal by going to your iPhone Settings > General > iPhone Storage > Comp Portal > and select Delete App. Then go to iPhone Settings > General > VPN & Device Management.
2.	If you see a Management Profile, go into it and click Remove Management.
3.	If the app Microsoft Authenticator is installed on the device, please do the following: 
1.	Make sure you have the latest Microsoft Authenticator from the store. 
2.	Open Microsoft Authenticator; it doesn't matter if you don't use it for anything else.
3.	From the hamburger menu, choose Help > Reset your accounts.
4.	When the warning appears, confirm you want to proceed. 
For Self-Service device management, such as lost or stolen devices, more information can be found in Manage your Connect Devices and Licenses
" KB0019416 Rutgers Connect Exporting Publisher files "
Microsoft has announced permanent retirement for Microsoft Publisher on October 1, 2026. After that date, Publisher will no longer be included in Microsoft 365 subscriptions, and support for existing versions will end. 
Considering this, it's recommend to convert your existing files to another format before the October 1, 2026 support cutoff. After this date, you will no longer be able to open or edit these files in Microsoft Publisher.  
Details
After October 1, 2026:
•	Publisher will be removed from Microsoft 365 installations.
•	Microsoft 365 subscribers will no longer be able to open or edit Publisher (.pub) files in the application.
Versions include:
•	Publisher for Microsoft 365
•	Publisher 2021 (see note)
•	Publisher 2019 (see note)
•	Publisher 2016
•	Publisher 2013
•	Publisher 2010
Note: Standalone versions (e.g.: "Publisher 2019", "Publisher 2021") may continue to function but will no longer receive updates or security fixes from Microsoft.
Exporting and Modifying Publisher files
Converting Publisher files to PDF (for viewing) 
To view content after Publishers retirement, you can convert the file to a PDF format by:
1.	Open Publisher file.
2.	Go to File > Save as.
3.	Choose a location to save the file.
4.	Select PDF as the file type and Save.
Converting numerous Publisher files
It is highly recommended that you have an IT representative assist you with this method. For assistance in finding or contacting your departmental IT or the OIT Help Desk.
To convert many Publisher files, consider automating this process by using a PowerShell script. You can refer to Example conversion script (located as a dropdown option below the paragraph on the linked site) as a guide.
Converting Publisher files to Word (for editing)
To edit content after Publishers retirement, you can convert the file through Word or through a third-party conversion tool (noted in Alternate option section).
For Word:
1.	Open Word.
2.	Go to File > Open.
3.	Locate and open the PDF file.
4.	Select OK in the dialog box.
From here your document will open as a Word file.
Note: The converted Word document will be optimized for text editing. As a result, its layout may vary from the original PDF—particularly if the document includes many graphics.
Alternate option to convert Publisher files
Using a third-party conversion tool to convert directly from Publisher to another file type.
Note: These services vary in quality and capabilities, and Microsoft does not provide support for them.
" KB0012517 Rutgers Connect Getting help in SharePoint "
Latest Updates
The SharePoint Help Center is continually updated with the latest changes and information for SharePoint Online.
SharePoint Community Blog
Read the SharePoint Community Blog to stay up to date with trends, best practices, and news directly from the Microsoft SharePoint team.
Finding Help Articles in SharePoint
Browser
To access help articles and the featured topics pane, click the ? (question mark) on the top right corner, then search or browse various SharePoint information.
Mobile
Navigate to the Me tab > tap on the gear icon (top right) > select View help option.
Additional Information
Contact the OIT Help Desk with questions or for further assistance.
" KB0012525 Rutgers Connect Getting started with Microsoft Teams "
Set up Microsoft Teams
Microsoft Teams is available as a download for a desktop app and as a mobile app for iOS and Android.
You can also run Microsoft Teams through the Teams website.
Sign in to Microsoft Teams
Logging in via the web app
1.	Go to Rutgers Connect. 
2.	The login name should be entered as netid@domain.rutgers.edu.
3.	Enter your NetID password > Sign In.
4.	Select the Waffle icon located in the upper left corner.
5.	From the drop-down menu, select Teams.
Logging in via the desktop app
After downloading the application, you will be asked to sign in with your work or school account.
1.	The login name should be entered as netid@domain.rutgers.edu
2.	Enter your NetID password > Sign In.

     Error! Filename not specified.
Select a Team and Channel
A team is a collection of people, conversations, files, and tools — all in one place. A channel is a discussion topic in a team. The best way to get familiar with teams and channels is to select a team and channel and start exploring. If you're not on a Team and want to create one, please talk to your domain admin.
1.	Select the Teams icon.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Select a channel and explore the Conversations, Files, and Notes tabs.
Channels can be a department, project, or topic. For more info, see Teams and channels.
Getting to Know the Microsoft Teams Layout
When you open Microsoft Teams, the name of the current view is centered at the top of the screen. Microsoft Teams usually opens to the last view you used. A vertical toolbar resides on the left side of the screen. Its upper left corner contains buttons for the main views: Activity, Chat, Teams, Meetings, and Files. Some buttons may not be available, depending on your account type. In the lower left corner of the toolbar are the buttons for Feedback and Settings (your icon). Notification settings are synced with the server; changes made in the browser will be reflected in the desktop client.
The rest of the screen is divided into two panes. Pane content depends on the current view. The left or list pane is used to navigate within the view. It always contains the Search field. The rest of its contents depend on the selected view. For example, if you select Chat on the toolbar, the left pane contains a list of your favorite, recent, and suggested contacts.
The right or main pane takes up most of the screen. It shows the content of the selection you have made in the left pane. For example, if you selected Chat on the toolbar and then selected a recent contact in the left pane, the right pane contains your conversation history with that person. The right pane also has tabs to keep the content organized. For example, in Chat view, the Conversation tab contains the conversation history, the Files tab contains a list of the files shared between you and the selected contact, the Organization tab shows the position of the selected contact in the organization chart, and so on.
" KB0012526 Rutgers Connect Getting started with Rutgers Connect "
The following instructions will help you get started using Rutgers Connect, the central email, calendar, and cloud services system. Rutgers Connect is based on Microsoft's Office 365 suite and is part of the President’s Strategic Plan for Rutgers University. All university email systems are consolidated into this single solution, which is the official university email and calendaring system for all Faculty and Staff. If you are a current Faculty or Staff member within the university, or a Student with an RBHS role, you are most likely auto-provisioned for a Connect (Office 365) account. Connect accounts are mostly administered within a department. 
Access Rutgers Connect
1.	Open up a web browser and go to the Rutgers Connect page.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Enter your Rutgers Connect email formatted as netid@yourdomain.rutgers.edu. Select Next then enter your Rutgers NetID password and click Sign In.  
o	Note: If you do not know your Connect sign-in email, follow the steps below to retrieve it.  
1.	Go to the email self-service page. 
2.	Scroll to the Rutgers Connect Account Information section and use the email listed next to Sign in to Rutgers Connect using: netid@yourdomain.rutgers.edu
3.	Follow the prompts to sign in with Duo Two-Step. For more information on Duo Two-Step login, please refer to the "What is two-step login with Duo?" article.
4.	Once you are logged in, you can select the App Launcher (nine dots) at the top left of the screen to see what applications are available with Rutgers Connect. 

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Some of the more commonly used applications and their associated help pages. 
o	Email Services - Help on how to use Mail
o	Calendar Services - Help on how to use Calendar
o	Office Online - Help on how to use Office Online
" KB0012546 Rutgers Connect How do I update the Global Address List in Outlook? "
The Global Address List (GAL) contains the names and email addresses of everyone that has an account in Rutgers Connect. The GAL can be accessed from Outlook and can also be viewed from the Outlook Web App.
The GAL will automatically update once a day, however, you may want to manually synchronize your computer's locally cached version of the GAL if you believe you are seeing any incorrect or outdated information.
1.	In the Send/Receive tab.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click on Download Address Book.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	A window will pop up with information regarding the Offline Address Book. 
1.	Be sure to uncheck the Download Changes since last Send/Receive option.
2.	Select the \Offline Global Address List option from the drop-down menu
3.	Click on the OK button.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	When the download of the address book is completed, restart your Outlook client. After restarting Outlook, the Global Address List should be populated with the most recent information.
" KB0012548 Rutgers Connect How to create a mailbox rule in Rutgers Connect "
Rules can be used to filter messages into other folders, to flag them for special attention, or to send the message to another address.
Steps on how to do so can be found on Microsoft's Support page on managing rules.
" KB0012549 Rutgers Connect How to create an automatic reply message in Rutgers Connect "
1.	When logged into Rutgers Connect, click on the gear icon in the upper right corner to open Settings.
2.	Select View all Outlook settings at the bottom of the tab. 
3.	Choose Mail > Automatic replies.
4.	Toggle on the Turn on automatic replies option. 
o	You have the option to either set your reply to start at a specific time, or to continue until you turn it off manually. 
	To set your reply to start at a specific time, check the Send replies only during this time period checkbox, then select a start time and an end time.
	To set your reply to continue until you turn it off manually, leave this option unchecked.
5.	Type your reply in the Send automatic replies inside your organization window.
6.	You have the option to send a separate reply to correspondents outside of Rutgers Connect. 
o	To use this, check the Send replies outside your organization checkbox.
o	You can choose to send replies to all senders or to those senders whose addresses are found in your contact list only by selecting the Send replies only to contacts checkbox.
o	If you wish to send the same reply to all external senders, copy your reply from the message window above and paste it into the Send replies outside your organization section.
o	Otherwise, enter a new message for your external senders in this section.
7.	Scroll to the bottom of the window and click Save.
8.	If you wish to turn off automatic replies manually, return to this page as described above, and toggle off the Automatic replies option.
9.	Scroll to the bottom of the window and click Save.
" KB0012556 Rutgers Connect How to install Microsoft Office for faculty and staff "
1.	Faculty, staff, and students with a PHI flag on their account must log into their Rutgers Connect account.
2.	After logging in, click the app launcher icon in the top left (nine dots).

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Select More apps.
4.	Click on Install apps located on the upper right-hand side of the page.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Select the Microsoft 365 apps option. 
o	Note that it is suggested not to have multiple versions of Microsoft Office running on your device. Uninstall previous versions of Office before attempting to download the latest version.
6.	On the Apps & Devices page, select Install Office to download the installation file. 

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Double-click the downloaded file to open it and start the installation process. 
8.	(Optional) Microsoft Office mobile apps are also available to download for iOS and Android devices.
" KB0012557 Rutgers Connect How to install Microsoft Office for students "
Note: RBHS students and those with access to Protected Health Information (PHI) must use their Rutgers Connect account to install Microsoft Office licenses.
1.	To access this service, students should visit the Rutgers Microsoft Office webpage and log in with their netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu address and their NetID password
2.	After logging in, navigate to the Apps & devices section and click Install Office.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Clicking the install button will trigger a download. Double-click the downloaded file to open it and start the installation process. 
4.	(Optional) Microsoft Office mobile apps are also available to download for iOS and Android devices: 
o	Office apps for Android
o	Office apps for iOS
" KB0012664 Rutgers Connect How to send from an alternate email address in Outlook "
Table of Contents
•	Outlook Web Access (OWA)
•	Outlook Desktop App - Windows
•	Outlook Desktop App - Mac
Outlook Web Access (OWA)
1.	When composing a new message in Outlook on the web, you will see that your Rutgers Domain Email Address is listed in the From section of the email message.
2.	When you click From, other email addresses will be listed for you to send from. You can also click on Other email addresses... to see other options you may have access to send from.
Outlook Desktop App - Windows
1.	By default, the From field will not be displayed when you compose a message. To display the From field, select the Options tab and select From in the Show Fields section. From now on, the From field will be displayed when composing a message.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	When composing a message, click on the From in the drop-down box and select Other E-Mail Address.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click on From.
4.	Choose More columns and make sure Global Address List is selected. Search for the address you want to send from and click OK.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Once you have entered the Alternate Email Address you would like to use, click OK.
6.	The next time you compose a message, the Alternate Email Address will be available from the From Drop-Down Box.

     Error! Filename not specified.
Outlook Desktop App - Mac
1.	By default, the From field will not be displayed when you compose a message. The From field will only be displayed after you set up a delegate for your account.
2.	Navigate to the Outlook option on the upper left-hand side of the screen and select Preferences.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Select the Accounts option.
4.	Select the Advanced button.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	A new window will pop up that has three sections. Navigate to the center option labeled Delegates. In the bottom half of the pop-up, there will be a section titled "People I am a delegate for." Select the "+" sign to add a new address that your account can send from.

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	A new box will pop up. Search the directory to find the address you wish to send from. (If the address is hidden from the directory, you will be unable to set up your Outlook for Mac to be able to send from the address.) Hit the Add button.

     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	The next time you compose a message, the Alternate Email Address will be available in a drop-down menu located in the From field.

     Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0012561 Rutgers Connect How to share a resource account calendar in Connect "
Please note that the following instructions are only applicable to individuals who have full access to the resource account.
Table of Contents
•	Outlook Web Access (OWA) Login
•	Outlook Desktop App
Outlook Web Access (OWA) Login
1.	Log in to the resource’s calendar.
2.	In the left pane, you will see a list of Calendars for the resource. Right-click the Calendar you want to share and select Share Calendar.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	In the Share with field, enter the name or email of the user you want to share the calendar with, then select them from the results menu below the search field. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	For each user you add, select the level of access they should have for the calendar.

     Error! Filename not specified.
o	Availability only means they will only see events as free or busy, and cannot see subjects or details.
o	Limited details means they will be able to see the subjects of events, but cannot see details.
o	Full details means they will see subjects and details for events.
o	Editor means they can also add or edit events.
o	Delegate means they will receive copies of all events for the calendar in their personal inbox and can accept/decline events on behalf of the calendar.
5.	Once you have made all your changes, click Send at the top of the right pane
Outlook Desktop App
1.	Open the Outlook desktop app and proceed to the Calendar view.
2.	In the left pane, you will see a list of Calendars for the resource. Right-click the Calendar you want to share and select Sharing Permissions. In the box that opens, select Add... to look up in the directory, the person with whom you want to share the calendar. After you have added the person, be sure to check the permissions to see what level of permission you want them to have. 

     Error! Filename not specified.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	The person will see the calendar on the left pane of the Calendar app under Shared Calendars.
" KB0012562 Rutgers Connect How to share mail on a resource account in Connect "
Please note that the following instructions are only applicable to people who have full access to the resource account. If you are unsure if you have full access, contact your Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrators. 
•	Outlook Web Access
•	Outlook Desktop App
Outlook Web Access (OWA) Login
1.	Log in directly to the Resource account.
2.	At the top of the left pane, under the title of the resource, all their mail folders should be listed. Right-click the folder you want to share, or the name of the resource to share all folders, and select Permissions.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	In the Permissions for the [resource] folder window, click the + symbol in the top left to share with a new user.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Enter the name or email address of the user you want to share the mailbox with. Click Add.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Highlight the new user and select the appropriate permission level from the drop-down. 
o	For more information on Permission Levels for shares, read this page from Microsoft.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Once you have made all your changes, click OK.
Outlook Desktop App
1.	In the left pane, under the title of the resource, all their mail folders should be listed. Right-click the folder you want to share, or the name of the resource to share all folders, and select Properties.
2.	Click on the Permissions tab and click on Add... to bring up the directory and search for the person you want to add. Click on the person's name and click on Add, and then OK.
     Error! Filename not specified.
     Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0012563 Rutgers Connect How to view a shared calendar in Outlook "
Table of Contents
•	Outlook Web Access (OWA) Login
•	Outlook Desktop App
Outlook Web Access (OWA) Login
1.	Log into your Rutgers Connect account and go to the Calendar app.
2.	On the left pane underneath the monthly calendar, you will see Add calendar.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click on Add calendar and select the option Add from directory on the middle left of the box that opens.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Type in the email address of the user or resource of the shared the calendar, select which calendar group you would like the calendar to appear in and then click Add.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	The shared calendar should now be listed in the left pane under the calendar group you have selected.
Outlook Desktop App
1.	Open the Outlook desktop app and proceed to the Calendar view.
2.	On the top ribbon click on Add Calendar and select From Address Book....

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Type in the name of the calendar you want to add in the search box, select the calendar in directory listing, click on Calendar and click on OK.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	The calendar can then be found on the left pane of the Calendar app under Shared Calendars.
" KB0012564 Rutgers Connect How to View a Shared Mail Folder in Rutgers Connect "
Table of Contents
•	Outlook Web Access (OWA) Login
•	Outlook Desktop App
•	What if it didn't work?
Outlook Web Access (OWA) Login
1.	Log in to your Rutgers Connect account and go to Mail.
2.	You will need to be in the expanded folders view to access the shared folders feature. If you do not see a complete list of your folders on the left-hand side of your screen, select the More option located under the Folders heading.
3.	Right-click Folder and select Add shared folder from the menu.  

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Enter the email address of the resource who shared the folder, then click Add.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	The account should be listed in the left pane. Click the account name to see the folders from that account that have been shared with you.
Outlook Desktop App
After your admin adds you to a shared mailbox, close and restart Outlook. The shared mailbox should automatically display in your Folder pane in Outlook.
Error! Filename not specified.
What if it didn't work?
If your admin only recently added you to a shared mailbox, it may take a few minutes for it to appear. After a couple of minutes, close and restart Outlook.
If you continue to encounter issues, manually add the shared mailbox to Outlook:
1.	Open Outlook.
2.	Choose the File tab in the ribbon.
3.	Choose Account Settings, then select Account Settings from the menu.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Select the Email tab.
5.	Make sure the correct account is highlighted, then choose Change.
6.	Choose More Settings > Advanced > Add.
7.	Type the shared email address.
8.	Choose OK > OK.
9.	Choose Next > Finish > Close.
For more information, visit the Microsoft Support page on how to Open and Use a Shared Mailbox in Outlook. 
" KB0012565 Rutgers Connect Importing address books into Rutgers Connect "
Personal Address Books can be imported into Rutgers Connect. This will only need to be done if your address book was not automatically migrated over with your account or if the address book is on a different account that was not included in the migration process.
1.	Log in to Rutgers Connect and click on the App Launcher.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Select People.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Select Manage contacts from the Home tab on the ribbon and choose Import contacts. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Select Browse and navigate to where you saved your exported contacts. Select the file to upload, and click Import.

     Error! Filename not specified.
For support on how to export contact lists from the above programs, please see Microsoft's documentation page that links to each program's steps on exporting from their applications.
" KB0012575 Rutgers Connect Introduction to Planner "
1.	Navigate to Rutgers Connect.
2.	Log in with your email address and NetID password.
3.	Access Planner in one of two ways after logging in - either from the waffle icon in the upper left-hand corner or by navigating to tasks.office.com

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Planner Hub displays your favorite plans up top, along with all of the other plans you're assigned to on the bottom. Click on the Assigned to me tab on the left. There you can see the tasks that are completed, late, or haven't been started yet.

Error! Filename not specified.

5.	After clicking on the plan, you're presented with a list of your buckets. Buckets are ways for the planner to group tasks. 
o	Ways to use buckets include, for example: 
	Assign them to your different team leads to visualize which specific member in your team is responsible for which specific task.
	Label your buckets as specific initiatives or deliverables in a plan.
o	Regardless of how you choose to use your buckets, it's important to remember that they are essentially repositories for your plan's tasks.

Error! Filename not specified.

6.	You can add by clicking on Add new bucket.
7.	You can delete or rename a bucket by clicking the ellipsis icon beside the bucket name when you hover over it.
8.	To create a task beneath the bucket, click on the + Add task icon. 
o	This will add a new task, which you can then set a due date for, assign the task to a member of the group, and add additional information, like a checklist, real-time comments, description, uploading attachments, dropping links, etc. You can be as granular as you want to be with your tasks. You can even assign tasks by dragging and dropping them under other buckets.

Error! Filename not specified.
9.	One way of adding new members to a plan is to click Members on the top right-hand side while in your plan. Start typing an email address or name and Planner with auto-populate members from your Office 365 address book.

Error! Filename not specified.
10.	You can also view your Planner's tasks by clicking on Charts. It provides a different visualization of the same data under the board view, just in a different way.

Error! Filename not specified.
11.	If you wanted to access your planner’s Notebook, calendar, see a list of members, or other options, click on the ellipsis menu item by clicking up top.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0015504 Rutgers Connect Manage your Connect Devices and Licenses "
With the number of devices now used for work, it can be confusing to figure out which site you need to go to to troubleshoot issues you might be facing. The following guide is intended to help you reach the correct device management page for Connect-related services.
•	Personal Device Registrations – These are devices you may have registered through the Intune Company Portal app to access your email or other services offered by Rutgers. In most cases, these are cell phones, but if you registered a tablet, it would fall under this category as well.
•	Office Activations – Your Office license includes 5 activations you can use on any devices you want. The devices that will show on this list are the ones you’ve signed into Office with your Connect credentials.
•	Accidental Device Registrations – These often come up during an Office activation.
Personal Device Registrations
Registering your device through the Intune Company Portal app allows you to access various Rutgers-approved apps for work use and, most importantly, provides access to your email and calendar on the go.
You can have up to 20 devices registered, with no more than 5 per OS (iOS, iPadOS, Android, Android for Work, Windows). It is recommended to remove device registrations when you no longer use those devices. You can manage your Intune-registered devices in two locations:
•	Via the Microsoft Device Portal.
o	This will take you to a landing page where you will see any device currently registered through the Intune Company Portal app. You can click on each one to see more details. More information on all the available options on this page can be found on Microsoft’s self-service guide.
•	Through the Intune Company Portal app on your registered device
o	By launching the app, you will see a list of your registered devices by default, where you can tap any device to see more details.
If you need to add a new device or remove an old one, please review the guides on enabling mobile device management on Android or iOS, which will walk you through the entire process from start to finish.
Office Activations
You may see an error that you cannot use Microsoft apps after signing in to Office, and receive an alert that it’s running in “reduced functionality” mode. This usually means that you have too many Office activations, and it isn’t necessarily a problem with your device itself. While Microsoft says it will automatically deactivate the oldest registered device, it is best to verify this by visiting the Get Office webpage.
Once it loads, you should see a Devices dropdown menu where you will then be presented with all the devices you are currently signed into Office with that are using an activation.
Error! Filename not specified.
To free up activations for whatever new device you’re trying to register with, click the Sign out button on any extra devices you know you aren’t using Office apps on. Once you’re under the limit, you should be able to use the Office apps installed on the new device.
Accidental Registrations
At some point, you may have accidentally registered a personal computer with Rutgers without even realizing it. While it might not be immediately noticeable, accidentally linking your work account to your personal computer can have unintended consequences that may interrupt your use of the machine. Make sure to follow this guide through to completion prior to your Faculty, Staff, Student, or Guest role with Rutgers ends. Otherwise, you might be left needing to completely format your Windows PC if you wait until after you’ve left the university, retired, or become an Alumni.
When installing or logging into Office on a new machine, you will be prompted with the following:
Error! Filename not specified.
You always want to select No, this app only. In the event you left the Allow my organization to manage my device box checked and clicked OK, you will need to remove your work account from your machine by doing the following:
1.	Open the settings on your device and select Accounts.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Select the Access work or school section on the left-hand side, and check to see if your Connect account is displayed on this page, like in the image below.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	If you see your account on this screen, simply click it and select Disconnect. 

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Now that you have removed the account from your machine, you’ll want to remove the registration in the system by going to Microsoft's device list webpage.
5.	Once there, find the device name, click it, and finally click Disable lost device. Even though the device isn’t lost, it disables it in the system, which then allows it to be removed entirely.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	All that’s left to do is to relaunch the Office app and sign into it again while making sure to select No, sign into this app only instead.
Additional Troubleshooting
If you still need assistance figuring out what is wrong with your devices, reach out to your Departmental IT or the OIT Help Desk, where someone can investigate your specific device and issue.
" KB0012600 Rutgers Connect Managing an Office 365 distribution group online "
1.	Open a web browser and go to Rutgers Connect.
2.	Log in with your Rutgers Connect email address and NetID password.
3.	In the upper right-hand corner select the gear icon. This will open the Settings menu.
4.	Select General on the left-hand menu and then select Distribution Groups.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Click the link in the message To manage distribution groups, visit this portal.
6.	You will now see the page to manage the distribution groups you belong to and the distribution groups you own.
7.	To edit a distribution group you own, select the Groups I own tab and then click on the distribution group that you want to edit.
8.	Select the Members tab.
9.	Under the Members section, click on View all and manage members.
10.	In the pop-up window that appears, do the following. 
o	To add a member: 
1.	Click +Add Members. 
2.	Use the search bar to find the person you want to add. (It's recommended to use their NetID to locate them.)
3.	Check the box to the left of their name and repeat the process to add additional people. 
4.	Once you have selected all the individuals, click Add(#) on the bottom of the window. 
o	To remove a member: 
1.	Check the box to the left of the person's name you want to remove. 
2.	Click Delete. 
3.	You'll be asked to confirm their removal. 
o	When done adding/removing members, you can close the window.
" KB0012615 Rutgers Connect Microsoft 365 groups "
Microsoft 365 Groups is a collaborative feature within Rutgers Connect that enables users to access shared versions of the following:
A Microsoft 365 group lets you choose a set of people you want to collaborate with and easily set up a collection of resources for them to share. Items in the group's resources (Calendar, OneDrive, OneNote) will automatically be shared with the group's members.
For additional information, visit the Microsoft page on adding/removing Group members.
Microsoft 365 groups within Rutgers Connect currently offer the following resources.
Shared inbox
Each group has a shared inbox accessible to all members. This shared inbox is fully searchable, creating a living archive of the group's messages. Newcomers to the group can search or scroll through the history to quickly get up to speed on what's been posted.
Messages addressed to the group's common email address will be delivered to this inbox. Members of the group can elect to have group messages appear in their personal inbox by subscribing to the group via email.
For additional information, visit the Microsoft page for Office 365's Shared Email.
Shared files library
Your group has a SharePoint file library where your users can store, share, and collaborate on documents, workbooks, presentations, images, or any other kind of file they need to work on.
Files stored in the group's file library can be edited using Microsoft Office desktop products as well as Office Online (Word Online, Excel Online, PowerPoint Online, etc.). These files have version control, which will track all changes made and also allow recovery to previous versions. Group libraries can also be shared with users external to the group.
For additional information, visit the Microsoft page for Office 365's Shared files library.
Shared calendar
Each group owns a shared calendar to post events related to the group. Each member who has subscribed to the group is automatically invited to events posted to the calendar, so those events can also appear on their personal calendars if they wish.
Group calendars can be shared with users external to the group.
For additional information, visit the Microsoft page for Office 365's Shared Calendar.
Shared OneNote Notebook
The group automatically has a shared OneNote notebook where group members can collect and collaborate on information.
•	
o	OneNote allows information to be organized in multiple tiers – notebooks, sections, pages, and subpages – which makes it easy to peruse only the relevant documentation. It also offers highly capable search functionality; users can search across all the information they have access to, or search only in a single page, section, or notebook. Additionally, it allows embedding a wide variety of media types, including images, audio recordings, and videos, to provide a more immersive and in-depth information-gathering experience.
o	Another common application is creating and storing meeting notes. As mentioned, OneNote allows users to embed audio recordings, and it also lets users record audio within OneNote. Recording can start at the beginning of the meeting without preventing any further note-taking; the person responsible for meeting notes can continue taking notes for the duration of the recording. Furthermore, any notes taken during this time will be associated with the appropriate time in the recording. If there is a brief note about a topic of interest, the note can be clicked on at a later time, and the recording will jump to the point at which that note was taken, so there is no need to sift through a long recording to find the bit of information you want.
o	Another feature of OneNote is handwriting recognition, so those who are more comfortable taking notes by hand can do so on a tablet or touchscreen-enabled computer, and their handwriting will be automatically converted to typed text.
Although there are many other uses for OneNote, the last one mentioned here is brainstorming. As the notebook is shared with all group members and can be updated in real time, colleagues can collaborate remotely by typing and drawing on a virtual paper that everyone can see at once.
To access OneNote, select the Notebook located on the top navigation bar in the group's view.

     Error! Filename not specified.
Guest access
You could add external contacts to distribution groups before, but all they got was email. With groups, you can offer guests access to email conversations, files, and even the shared OneNote notebook.
For additional information, visit the Microsoft page on Guest access.
If you would like to request the creation of an Office 365 group, please contact your Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator.
" KB0012604 Rutgers Connect Microsoft Bookings "
Microsoft Bookings is a scheduling tool that assists with booking appointments, and it is included with your Rutgers Connect Office 365 license. There are many ways to use Bookings in a university environment. An individual faculty member could use it to create a calendar where students could request office hour appointments, or a department chair or administrator could create an office hours calendar with slots for multiple faculty members.
You should be able to see the Bookings tab listed in the application menu after logging in to Rutgers Connect. Before you can access Bookings, however, you must either create a new Booking Calendar or be added to an existing Booking Calendar.
A Booking Calendar is a space where scheduling appointments can be made. Please note that currently, you are not able to create a Booking Calendar yourself through the Bookings application. You can contact your department or unit IT support to set up your Booking site to begin scheduling appointments. Once your Booking Calendar has been created by your department or unit IT support and you have been made an owner, you should be able to open the Bookings tab via your Rutgers Connect account and immediately access the site.
You can learn more about Bookings in this article from Microsoft, which goes into greater detail about the product.
     Error! Filename not specified.
Table of Contents
•	Scheduling
•	Calendar
•	Booking Page
•	Staff
•	Services
•	Business Information
•	Additional Information
Scheduling
Bookings can be scheduled by either a user looking to make an appointment or a staff member with access to the Booking calendar. You can set up a booking page that allows users to schedule their own appointments, similar to what you might see if you have booked an appointment online to get a haircut or have your car serviced. Alternatively, you or another faculty or staff member can enter the bookings manually, such as when a user or customer calls for an appointment.
Calendar
The Calendar section lets you manually create and assign new Booking slots to users and staff members. It’s also where you can view all slots in your Bookings Calendar.
In order to manually set up and assign Booking slots, you will first need to create an entry for the customer in the “Customers” Booking tab. This will allow you to schedule appointments on behalf of users by inputting their contact information and details – the same details a user would need to provide if they were scheduling themselves for a Bookings slot. Next, navigate to the “Calendar” tab. Here you will be able to assign a Booking to both a customer and a staff member for a specific slot. This is a great feature for those who wish to keep their calendar hidden and keep track of appointments themselves within the app.
Booking Page
The Booking Page tab lets you make changes to and publish or unpublish the Booking Calendar. It also provides you with notification and scheduling settings that you can configure for your calendar. Here is what a published Bookings site looks like, where users can assign themselves to slots on a calendar when specified. 
     Error! Filename not specified.
Staff
Staff members are the employees that the users or customers book appointments with. If, for example, you were making a Bookings Calendar for an academic department office hours, these would be the department faculty. To add staff members to your Bookings Calendar, navigate to the Staff page and select Add Staff Member. This will bring up details you can edit for each member you wish to add. You can edit a staff member’s availability, contact information, and role: Administrator, Viewer or Guest.
Staff members can then be assigned to a variety of slots based on the availability presented on their Rutgers Connect calendar.
Administrators	Can open and configure the Booking Calendar. If we use the example of a department using bookings for faculty office hours, this might be the department chair or the administrative assistant. It could also be the faculty members if they want to manage their own booking calendar.
Viewers	Can open the Booking Calendar and view settings, but can’t make changes. If we use the example of a department using bookings for faculty office hours, this might be a student worker who you want to be able to view, but not change, appointments.
Guest	Can be assigned to a Booking slot, but cannot open the Booking Calendar. If we use the example of a department using bookings for faculty office hours, this might be a faculty member who is not managing the entire Booking calendar.
Customers	Are users who are booking the slots in the Calendar with a staff member. If we use the example of a department using bookings for faculty office hours, this might be the students booking office hours appointments.
 
     Error! Filename not specified.
Services
The Service tab is where you can edit the name of the service you are providing through your Booking Calendar. This is what customers see when a Booking Calendar is published – it should define the purpose of the Booking. If we use the example of a department using bookings for faculty office hours, this might be "Office Hours."
Business Information
The Business Information tab lets you configure the overall name of your calendar as well as the business/office hours, contact information and logo so that customers can easily identify the group associated with the service.
The slots that are created in the calendar are unique to the Booking Calendar itself.
Additional Information
You can find more advanced documentation on using Microsoft Bookings on Microsoft's support site.
Be sure to explore all capabilities of Bookings before publishing your calendar. If you have any questions or concerns regarding Bookings, please contact your local IT or the OIT Help Desk. 
" KB0012605 Rutgers Connect Microsoft Lists "
Microsoft Lists is an Office 365 organizational tool in Rutgers Connect that helps you keep track of issues, requests, information, events, work-related items, and more. It comes with several preset templates to help you get started. To better visualize your information, Lists also provides customizable views, smart rules, and synced sharing. Create, collaborate, share, and view all of your lists in one place via the Lists application in your Rutgers Connect waffle menu.
Getting Started
To get started, after logging in to Rutgers Connect, click the Lists icon within the Rutgers Connect app launcher (aka, the “waffle” menu).
Error! Filename not specified.
Here, you can start a list either from scratch or by using a ready-made template. Learn more about each template. You can even create new lists from existing lists or by importing Excel table data.
Error! Filename not specified.
After creating a list, you will see all your favorite and recent lists, both ones you own and those shared with you. You will be able to create both personal lists you own and can share, and team lists owned by team members.
Error! Filename not specified.
Microsoft Teams is directly integrated with Lists. You can either add an existing list to a Teams channel or create a new list directly in Teams and chat on individual list items, combining lists with side-by-side conversations. When you click + to add a new tab to a Teams channel, select the Lists app to begin.
The Lists app is used to both create new and embed existing lists. You can further refine your list by adding new columns and defining drop-down choices. Create, view, or edit share links, create custom views and filters, and set up rules – all to ensure the list works for you and your team. You get full control over how your list looks and how it works for you, right from within Teams.
Error! Filename not specified.
Every list you create is stored in SharePoint. You can access or share your List directly from your personal or team’s SharePoint site. The default view in the Microsoft Lists application may even look familiar to many SharePoint users, as the feature is designed to be an innovative experience for SharePoint lists. List configuration and changes can be made directly from SharePoint.
Customize Your List
Microsoft Lists provides many ways to customize and utilize the lists you create. There are four main views when configuring lists: list, grid, gallery, and calendar. Grid view is the primary style you will see when you first create a list, while gallery view highlights lists that include images. Calendar view will display any list or item with a date.
Error! Filename not specified.
 
Error! Filename not specified.
You can adjust how information appears in these views by using conditional formatting, which dynamically changes background, font color, and icons when certain criteria are met. Choose people, status, and value changes to send notifications and make updates. You can even create custom views to organize and showcase the items most important to you or your team, using filtering, sorting, or styling. Create personal views that only you can see or public views for shared lists.
Error! Filename not specified.
Once you’ve created your lists and configured your view to your liking, you can take your list a step further with added automation. You can build custom productivity apps using lists as the data source. Under the Automate section, you’ll find that you can set up Flows that work with your Lists. Fully integrated with Microsoft 365, Lists works seamlessly with other apps, such as Excel, SharePoint, Power Apps (custom forms), Power Automate, and Power BI.
Error! Filename not specified.
 
Error! Filename not specified.
Sharing
When you share a list, you can share it with edit or read-only permissions. Or share individual items, allowing or disabling the ability to edit, set an expiration date, or require a password before granting access. And once shared, invitees can add comments on the full list or on individual list items.
Error! Filename not specified.
Learn More
Microsoft offers many videos and courses that can help you fully utilize your lists.
•	Getting Started
•	First Look at Lists YouTube Video
•	List Templates
" KB0019411 Rutgers Connect Microsoft Publisher End-of-Life "
End of Support October 1, 2026
Microsoft has announced that it will permanently retire Microsoft Publisher on October 1, 2026. After that date, Publisher will no longer be included in Microsoft 365 subscriptions, and support for existing versions will end.
While Publisher is not widely used across Rutgers, it is currently installed on a number of university-managed devices and has been launched by approximately 500 users over the past year. We are sharing this information now to ensure awareness well in advance of the retirement date.
Details
After October 1, 2026:
•	Publisher will be removed from Microsoft 365 installations.
•	Microsoft 365 subscribers will no longer be able to open or edit Publisher (.pub) files in the application.
Versions include:
•	Publisher for Microsoft 365
•	Publisher 2021 (see note)
•	Publisher 2019 (see note)
•	Publisher 2016
•	Publisher 2013
•	Publisher 2010
Note: Standalone versions (e.g.: "Publisher 2019", "Publisher 2021") may continue to function but will no longer receive updates or security fixes from Microsoft.
User preparation
Microsoft recommends converting existing .pub files to PDF or Word prior to October 2026. It is understood that file conversions may not fully preserve formatting or layout, and users should plan accordingly. 
Next steps
It's recommended that departmental IT begin identifying any supported users who may rely on Publisher so they can plan ahead. The Office of Information Technology has created documentation instructions for exporting Microsoft Publisher files that are in the .pub format to PDF or Word, as well as recommendations for Rutgers-supported alternate applications. 
" KB0013297 Rutgers Connect Microsoft Visio for Office 365 "
Visio is a platform for organizing projects with visual aids such as flow charts, org charts, brainstorming, and much more with their templates given. 
Visio for the web is available for every user across the university, including students. Faculty and Staff may purchase the other Visio plans from the software portal. 

For additional information, visit the article on the available Visio versions and features.
This version specifically is Visio for the web, so it can only be accessed from a web browser or through Teams using the Visio plugin. 
Visio for the web can be accessed in the same way as other Office 365 apps via the sidebar on your Rutgers Connect account. 
Students can access it by navigating to the Visio web page and signing in with their ScarletMail account information.
With a wide array of templates to choose from, any department or individual user can benefit from the organization-provided features of this tool. Microsoft hosts a page showcasing many of Visio's available templates.
Teams Integration
Using Visio in Teams is a near-identical experience to the web app. In order to set it up, add the Visio tab by clicking + and searching for the Visio app if it isn’t immediately visible.
Error! Filename not specified.
Error! Filename not specified.
Once the tab is added, any Visio files inside the Teams channel can be opened in the Visio tab. If none are present, one can easily be added through the same upload process as other files.
" KB0012512 Rutgers Connect Migrating Rutgers Connect Personal Data to ScarletMail "
Upon separation from the University, please arrange to transfer all Rutgers property (including electronic data) to the appropriate authority. For departing faculty and staff, the Offboarding Checklist may prove useful. 
After transferring all Rutgers data, you may find some amount of personally owned data remains. Examples of such data include personally-owned scholarly works and student coursework, as described in University Policy 50.3.7. You will not have access to this data on Rutgers Connect following your separation. However, as an alumni or retiree, you may be provided continuing service on ScarletMail. This document describes OIT's suggested method of moving data from a Rutgers Connect account to a ScarletMail account.
This procedure must be used exclusively on personally-owned data. Data classified as Restricted or Critical ePHI under Rutgers Information Classification Policy 70.1.2 must not be transferred to ScarletMail nor any other non-Rutgers system. Doing so may represent a violation of the Federal HIPAA Privacy/Security rules, State Privacy Laws, and/or University policies. Please prepare your data accordingly prior to the migration procedure.
Your Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator may have additional details regarding unit-level data practices. Please feel free to engage them with your questions or concerns.
To export the data, you will need to download the Google Workspace Migration Tool. To use this tool, you will need access to:
•	Your ScarletMail account
•	A Microsoft Exchange Profile or an export of your Rutgers Connect account in a .PST file. View Microsoft's support article on How to Create a PST file.
o	Important: If you're using Cached Exchange Mode, Outlook will only export the items in your current cache. By default, your cache contains items from the past 12 months. To export more than the past 12 months of data, turn off Cached Exchange Mode first. For more information, see Turn Cached Exchange Mode on or off.
•	Microsoft Outlook 2010, Microsoft Outlook 2013, Microsoft Outlook 2016, or Microsoft Outlook 2019
•	Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10, or Windows 11. MacOS is NOT supported
This tool will allow you to import mail, calendars, and personal contacts from your Rutgers Connect account to your ScarletMail account.
1.	Download the Google Workspace Migration tool. 
o	Note: This tool is only supported on Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10 or Windows 11.
o	MacOS is NOT supported. 
2.	After the tool finishes downloading, you can open it by searching for "Google Workspace Migration for Microsoft Outlook" from the Windows Start menu.
3.	The tool will then prompt you to enter your email address. Please enter your ScarletMail address in the form of netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu. Click Continue. You will then be prompted to log in to your account using the standard Rutgers Central Authentication Service (CAS) page.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	The Google Workspace Migration tool will provide you with the data they need to access to complete the migration. Click Allow to continue the migration.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	The tool will then ask you to select if you would like to migrate data from a Microsoft Outlook profile or a PST file. Navigate to and select your .PST file. If you have performed a migration previously, you can choose whether to migrate all data or only the new data since your last migration. Click Next. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	You will then select the data you wish to migrate. Please note that the "Contacts" option will only import your personal contacts, not the global address book. Select Migrate when you are ready to begin your migration.

     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	After you select Migrate you will see a migration status screen. This screen will show you the migration process. You will be able to see the number of items migrated in each section and the number of items remaining. 
1.	Please note that migration can take several hours to complete.
2.	You can use the Pause Migration button to temporarily stop your migration.
3.	The migration log file link found on the status page will alert you to any errors that might have occurred during your migration.

Error! Filename not specified.
8.	Log in to your ScarletMail account to confirm that your data has been migrated successfully.
9.	Many Rutgers employees forward their ScarletMail email to Rutgers Connect while working at the University. After completing this process, review the auto-forward settings in ScarletMail and remove any that may be configured for your Connect account. For more information, visit Google's guide on managing auto-forward. 
" KB0012611 Rutgers Connect Mobile device management policy "
Mobile Device Management for Office 365 has been enabled for all Rutgers Connect Accounts. Mobile Device Management (MDM) helps secure mobile devices to ensure compliance with University policies. While enrolling your device in MDM through the Company Portal App, you will see a notice stating that administrators will be allowed to make a number of changes to your device, but the University will not use those features, as they are beyond policy.
If you are associated with RBHS, review the Mobile Device Management policy for RBHS. 
The MDM policies that are currently in effect for all Rutgers staff and faculty are:
•	A password is required on the device. 
o	Google has set the minimum for personal devices to be a non-repeating, non-sequential 4 digit pin.
o	Apple has set the minimum for personal devices to be a 4 digit pin.
•	Jailbroken or rooted devices (devices that have had basic security measures stripped away from the operating system) will not work.
•	Managing email profile will be required.
•	Remotely wipe a mobile device if it is lost or stolen (this will not occur without the explicit consent of the device’s owner).
•	A device OS version that matches or exceeds the minimum supported version listed in the Office Suite Supported Versions article.
Instructions for enabling Mobile Device Management on iOS and Android devices can be found at the links below.
•	Enabling Mobile Device Management on Android Devices
•	Enabling Mobile Device Management on iOS Devices
There are known email applications that bypass MDM restrictions. These applications should not be used as they violate the Rutgers Connect MDM Standard. Below is a list of the currently known applications that are noncompliant:
•	CloudMagic
•	BlueMail
•	Newton
•	Typeapp
•	MyMail
•	SparkMail
•	EdisonMail
If you are leaving the university or no longer wish to have your device enabled to access Rutgers Connect on your mobile device, please remove the Intune Company Portal app from your device.
" KB0012612 Rutgers Connect Mobile device management policy for RBHS "
Mobile Device Management for Office 365 has been enabled for the Connect Accounts of those who have PHI flags. The PHI flag is in place to denote those who have access to Protected Health Information (PHI) and must abide by HIPAA regulations on how to store or send their email. Mobile Device Management (MDM) is a way to secure mobile devices so that they are compliant with the requirements of handling PHI. While enrolling your device in MDM through the Company Portal App, you will be prompted by a notice that states administrators will be allowed to make a number of changes to your device but the University will not utilize those features as they are beyond policy.
The MDM policies that are currently in effect for all staff who handle PHI data are:
•	Devices will be wiped after 10 sign-in failures
•	A password will be required on the device. 
o	For iOS, iPadOS, and Corporate Android devices: 
	The password must be at least 6 characters.
	The password must be alphanumeric with 2 character sets (including at least one special character).
o	For Personal and Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) Android devices: 
	Use either a password with at least 6 alphanumeric characters or a PIN with at least 8 digits.
	Repeating or ordered sequences of 4 or more characters or digits are blocked.
•	Devices will be locked after 15 minutes of inactivity.
•	Devices must have data encryption enabled. Apple devices (iOS devices) have built-in encryption that is automatically enabled but Android devices will need to enable encryption manually. This process is battery-intensive and may take up to an hour to complete, so make sure your device is plugged in while encrypting.
•	Jailbroken or rooted devices (devices with basic security measures stripped away from the operating system) will not work.
•	Managing email profile will be required.
•	A device OS version that matches or exceeds what's listed on the Office Suite Supported Versions article.
•	Removable storage on devices cannot be used.
Note: If your device utilizes a removable media device/removable storage (such as an SD card) the Help Desk advises that you copy the data to another location prior to enabling your device for MDM. Failure to properly copy your data prior to enabling your device may result in a loss of data.
Due to the implementation of MDM, IMAP has been turned off on both mobile and desktop devices for those who have access to PHI. This will require you to connect using Exchange when using your Connect account, which will enforce the MDM rules. You will need to access your Connect account using Outlook Web Access (OWA), Outlook, or a mobile device enrolled in MDM.
Instructions on how to enable iOS and Android devices for Mobile Device Management can be found in the links below.
•	Enabling Mobile Device Management on Android Devices
•	Enabling Mobile Device Management on iOS Devices
There are known mail applications that bypass the restrictions of MDM. These applications should not be used as they violate the Rutgers Connect MDM Standard. Below is a list of the currently known applications that are noncompliant:
•	CloudMagic
•	BlueMail
•	Newton
•	Typeapp
•	MyMail
•	SparkMail
If you are leaving the university or no longer wish to have your device enabled to access Rutgers Connect on your mobile device, please remove the Intune Company Portal app from your device.
" KB0018110 Rutgers Connect Mobile Device Supported Operating Systems for Rutgers Connect "
With each major update of a mobile device's Operating System (OS), Microsoft also updates the minimum supported version of OS's for the Office Suite. Devices below this threshold are no longer supported by Microsoft and their apps will not receive feature and/or security updates. To improve security and support, the University will be setting OS minimums that devices must maintain or they will be un-enrolled from our tenant. These minimums will be updated as new OS versions are released. These limits currently are:
•	iOS/iPadOS minimum OS: 18
•	Android minimum OS: 13
If you have a device below these limits, you will receive a notification on your device the next time it checks in. If an OS update is not applied to the device, the notification will come up again on day 7, 14, 21, and 28. If the you do not update by day 15, you will receive an email notification that your device needs to be updated. On day 30 your device will be un-enrolled from Intune Company portal and removed from the Rutgers tenant. This would be the same as if the you had manually un-registered your device from the Intune Company Portal.
iOS/iPadOS Notification
Error! Filename not specified.
Android Notification
Error! Filename not specified.
For any device that needs updating, either just OS or hardware, it's recommended to un-enroll the device from Intune Company Portal, follow your device manufacturers recommendations for back-ups, do all pending updates, then re-enroll the device with an updated version of the Intune Company Portal. If the device does not update to the minimum OS needed for mobile Office, the University can not guarantee that Microsoft publishes a suitable version of mobile Office apps for your OS. 
Additional Information
How to update iOS/iPadOS
How to update your Android OS
Adding/Removing mobile device management on Android for Work on Android Devices
Adding/Removing mobile device management on iOS devices
Office Suite Minimum Supported OS Versions
" KB0012376 Rutgers Connect Modern Authentication - Thunderbird OAuth2.0 "
Table of Contents
•	Requirements
•	Setting up Thunderbird
•	Troubleshooting
•	Setting up Shared Accounts
Requirements
•	You need to be running Thunderbird version 102.7.2 or later, which supports OAuth2 modern authentication. 
o	To update Thunderbird, click on the hamburger menu, select Help > About Thunderbird > Update.
•	You must also have IMAP and SMTP enabled on your account in order for Thunderbird to work properly. 
o	Most account setup errors occur because one of these two features is not enabled. If you are having issues retrieving/sending mail after following these instructions, you should reach out to the Connect Delegated Administrator for your department to help configure your account.
Setting up Thunderbird
1.	To begin, launch Thunderbird. If you have other accounts configured, select Local Folders on the left-hand side. Select Email under the Setup Another Account section in the main window.
o	If it is your first time launching Thunderbird, the Account Setup page will be one of the first tabs open (see image below)
2.	On the Account Setup window, enter the following:
o	Your full name: Enter your name
o	Email address: Enter your Rutgers Connect email address in the format of netid@domain.rutgers.edu
o	Important: Do not enter your Rutgers Connect password in the Password box. Only enter your email address and name.

     Error! Filename not specified.
1.	Click continue and let Thunderbird try to automatically find server settings. Regardless of whether it finds settings, click Configure manually.

Error! Filename not specified.
1.	Make sure your settings match those below:

INCOMING 
•	
o	Protocol: IMAP
o	Server: outlook.office365.com
o	Port: 993
o	SSL: SSL/TLS
o	Authentication: OAuth2
o	Username: netid@yourdomain.rutgers.edu 
OUTGOING
•	
o	Protocol: SMTP
o	Server: smtp.office365.com
o	Port: 587
o	SSL: STARTTLS
o	Authentication: OAuth2
o	Username: netid@yourdomain.rutgers.edu

Error! Filename not specified.

Important: If Thunderbird does not automatically detect these settings, it may not be possible to select OAuth2 from the Authentication method dropdown. If you get to this step and notice this issue, jump to the next section. 
1.	Click Done to confirm.
2.	A Duo prompt should now load, asking for your Rutgers Connect account password. Once entered, click Sign in.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	You should now be able to see your mailbox in Thunderbird.
4.	When you open your inbox, you may be redirected to authenticate through Duo
5.	Thunderbird should start loading all your mail. This step may take a while on the first configuration.
Troubleshooting
If you are unable to pull the correct server info and end up with an image similar to the one below, you might need to go to Advanced config to fix this issue and properly set up Oauth2.
Error! Filename not specified.
1.	With the Server Settings now pulled up, enter the correct information:
o	Server Name: outlook.office365.com
o	Port: 993
o	Username: NetID@domain.rutgers.edu
o	Connection security: SSL/TLS
o	Authentication method: Oauth2

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	After correcting this info, a Duo prompt should appear as with the normal setup. However, you may also have to fix your outbound server settings so you can send mail, so select Outgoing Server (SMTP) from the left-hand menu pane.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	If you have multiple options, select the server settings for the account you are currently trying to set up and click Edit…. It should be easily identifiable as the server name will be anything but “smtp.office365.com” and the “Authentication method” is likely “<not specified>”.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	In the window that opens, enter the server information from step 4, or compare it to the settings below.

 Error! Filename not specified.

Important: Even after entering the correct server information, OAuth2 might not be an option to select. If this is the case, select “OK,” then click “Edit” again on the “Outgoing Server” page, and OAuth2 should appear as an option. 
5.	At this point, your Thunderbird should be configured. If you did not get a Duo prompt at any point while fixing these settings, you can force the authentication by clicking Get Messages from the inbox tab in Thunderbird
Setting up Shared Accounts
The process for setting up shared accounts is similar, but with some important key deviations from above:
1.	To begin, launch Thunderbird. If you have other accounts configured, click on Local Folders on the left-hand side. Select Email under the Setup Another Account section in the main window.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	On the Mail Account setup window, enter the following; 
o	Your name: Enter the name of the shared mailbox
o	Email Address: Enter the address of the shared mailbox
o	Important: Leave the password field blank when setting up a user mailbox

Error! Filename not specified.
1.	Thunderbird should now automatically discover and enter the needed server settings. Regardless of what it finds, click the Configure manually button and make sure your settings match those below.

Error! Filename not specified.
INCOMING 
•	
o	Protocol: IMAP
o	Server: outlook.office365.com
o	Port: 993
o	SSL: SSL/TLS
o	Authentication: OAuth2
o	Username: shared-mailbox@domain.rutgers.edu
OUTGOING
•	
o	Protocol: SMTP
o	Server: smtp.office365.com
o	Port: 587
o	SSL: STARTTLS
o	Authentication: OAuth2
o	Username: netid@yourdomain.rutgers.edu
Important: The username in the Incoming server settings should be the shared mailbox address, while the username in the Outgoing server settings should be your Connect login.
1.	Click Done to confirm.
2.	You should be prompted to enter the password for the shared mailbox. Instead, click Sign in with another account, then enter your Connect login information. Once entered, hit Sign in.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Duo should then prompt for authentication, and after accepting it, you should see the shared mailbox in Thunderbird.
4.	When you open your inbox moving forward, you may get Duo prompts to reauthenticate.
5.	After authenticating, the shared mailbox will load all its mail. Please note that this step may take a while on the first configuration.
The Office of Information Technology strongly recommends using the most up-to-date versions of our recommended clients (as well as up-to-date operating systems) to ensure the best level of support. If you have any questions or concerns, please reach out to the OIT Help Desk for assistance. 
" KB0013635 Rutgers Connect Office Suite Supported Versions "
For the best experience, use the most current build of any operating system and application specified below. Product functionality and feature availability may vary on older systems.
Microsoft 365 Apps
Windows 11, Windows Server 2025 until October 2029, and Windows Server 2022 until October 2026.  One of the three most recent versions of macOS. 
Microsoft Office 2024
Windows 11, Windows Server 2025, or Windows Server 2022. For ARM-based devices, Windows 11 is the minimum supported version of Windows OS. Office for Mac is supported on the three most recent versions of macOS.  Connections to Microsoft 365 services are supported while Office LTSC 2024 is in mainstream support, through October 2029.
Microsoft Office 2021
Windows 11, or Windows Server 2022. Office for Mac is supported on the three most recent versions of macOS.  Connections to Microsoft 365 services are supported while Office LTSC 2021 is in mainstream support, through October, 2026.
Microsoft Office 2019
Support for Office 2019 connections to Microsoft 365 services ended October 2023.
Microsoft Office 2016
Support for Office 2016 connections to Microsoft 365 services ended October 2023.
Mobile Office for iOS
Office for iPad and iPhone (including Outlook for iOS) is supported on the two most recent versions of iOS and iPadOS. When a new version of iOS or iPadOS is released, the Office Operating System requirement becomes the two most recent versions: the new version of iOS or iPadOS and the previous version. 
Mobile Office for Android
Office for Android (including Outlook for Android) can be installed on tablets and phones running the last four major versions of Android that have an ARM-based or Intel x86 processor.  When a new version of Android is released, the Office Operating System requirement becomes the four most recent versions: the new version of Android and the previous three versions.
More detailed information about Microsoft Office and it's apps (Access, Excel, OneNote, Outlook, PowerPoint, Publisher, Teams, and Word) may be found on Microsoft's website.
Additional Information
Windows 10 end of support and Microsoft 365 Apps
Rutgers University Windows 10 End of Life
Which macOS version is the latest, and which computers can use the latest?
How to download and install macOS 
iPhone models compatible with iOS 26
iPad models compatible with iPadOS 26 
iPhone models compatible with iOS 18
iPad models compatible with iPadOS 18
Android Release Versions
With the release of macOS Tahoe (macOS 26) on September 15th, 2025, macOS Sonoma (macOS 14) has become the minimum supported OS for Microsoft 365 Apps.     
 
With the release of iOS and iPadOS 26 on September 15th, 2025, iOS and iPadOS 18 have become the minimum supported iOS and iPadOS for Mobile Office.  
 
With the release of Android 17 on June 16, 2026, Android 14 has become the minimum supported Android OS for Mobile Office.
 
" KB0012617 Rutgers Connect OneDrive for Business "
OneDrive for Business is a feature of Rutgers Connect (Office 365) that lets you store, sync, and share your work files in the cloud. With OneDrive for Business, you can share and collaborate on work documents with co-workers.
Please note that OneDrive is designed to securely upload your documents to the cloud so you can access your data from any device. You may want to move your Desktop or My Documents folders to OneDrive to sync them with the cloud, but we recommend against uploading your entire hard drive. Attempting to sync system, program, and configuration files will unnecessarily consume your OneDrive quota and may affect OneDrive's ability to efficiently sync your important files.
When you store your files with OneDrive, you can:
•	Access and update files from anywhere on any device.
•	Manage your business files on the road.
•	Collaborate on documents with others at the same time.
•	Synchronize files from the cloud service to your desktop and work with them offline.
Instructions for setting up OneDrive on your computer can be found at the links below.
•	Setting up OneDrive for Business on Windows
•	Setting up OneDrive for Business on Mac
Find out more about OneDrive on Rutgers Connect. 
" KB0012618 Rutgers Connect OneDrive on Rutgers Connect "
Microsoft’s OneDrive is part of the Rutgers Connect suite and is available to all faculty, staff, students, and guests. OneDrive allows up to 5 terabytes of storage per user, including restricted data such as files containing protected health information (PHI). OneDrive supports all Windows, MacOS, Android*, iOS*, and Linux devices and has a full-featured web interface that can be used on other platforms. File sharing can be used to share information with anyone, as anonymous link sharing has been enabled.
Availability: All faculty, staff, students, and guests
Storage limit: 5 Terabytes
File size limit: 250 gigabytes
File limit: 30 million documents (300,000 limit recommended for sync performance)
Speed limits: Not documented (varies based on a number of factors; no issue has been experienced)
Access methods: Windows Client, MacOS Client, Android App*, Apple iOS App*, Linux, Web
Document versions: 500
PHI permitted: Yes
Integrated with Canvas: Yes
•	Content viewers must have an account: No
•	Instructors and viewers must add an appropriate email to Canvas settings: Yes
•	Content viewers must also use the same tenant: No
*Mobile device management required
To access OneDrive, navigate to Rutgers Connect, log in, and select Apps in the top left corner (nine dots) and then OneDrive.
Instructions for setting up OneDrive on your computer are available at the links below.
•	Setting up OneDrive for Business on Windows
•	Setting up OneDrive for Business on Mac
To learn more about getting started with OneDrive, view Microsoft's support page.
" KB0012634 Rutgers Connect Recipient experience for encrypted emails in Connect "
Table of Contents
•	Encrypt or Encrypt-Only
•	Do Not Forward
•	Rutgers Connect – Confidential
•	Rutgers Connect – Confidential View Only
Encrypt or Encrypt-Only
If the sender chose Encrypt or Encrypt-Only, and the recipient is using the Outlook Web App (connect.rutgers.edu), Outlook, the Windows 10 Mail app, or Outlook for Android or iOS, the recipient will be able to read and reply to encrypted emails just like any other message. They will notice a banner at the top of the email that says "Encrypt: This message is encrypted. Recipients can’t remove encryption."
Error! Filename not specified.
If the sender is using another email service, such as Gmail (including ScarletMail) or Yahoo, they will receive a link to read the message in a secure window instead.
Error! Filename not specified.
If they are using the Outlook desktop application, they can click on the banner that says the message is encrypted and choose View Permissions to see detailed information about what they can do with the message.
Error! Filename not specified.
Do Not Forward
If the sender chose Do Not Forward and the recipient is using the Outlook Web App, Outlook, the Windows 10 Mail app, or Outlook for Android or iOS, the recipient will be able to read the email normally, but will see a message at the top that says "Do Not Forward: recipients can’t forward, print or copy content". As stated, they will be unable to forward, print or copy the email.
Error! Filename not specified.
As with the Encrypt option, non-Outlook users will receive a link to read the message in a secure window.
Error! Filename not specified.
Rutgers Connect – Confidential
If the sender chose Rutgers Connect – Confidential, and the recipient is using the Outlook Web App, Outlook, the Windows 10 Mail app, or Outlook for Android or iOS, they will be able to read the email normally, but will see a message at the top that says "Rutgers University – Confidential: This content is proprietary information intended for internal users only." They will be able to reply and modify the email, but will not be able to copy or print it. Users who are accessing their Rutgers Connect account through third-party apps, like Apple Mail, will receive a link to read the message in a secure window. Users of non-Rutgers email will be unable to view the message.
Error! Filename not specified.
Rutgers Connect – Confidential View Only
If the sender chose Rutgers Connect – Confidential View Only, and they are using the Outlook Web App, Outlook, the Windows 10 Mail app, or Outlook for Android or iOS, they will be able to read the email normally, but will see a message at the top that says "Rutgers University – Confidential: This content is proprietary information intended for internal users only. This content cannot be modified." You will be able to view the email, but will not be able to edit, copy or print it. Users who are accessing their Rutgers Connect account through third-party apps, like Apple Mail, will receive a link to read the message in a secure window. Users of non-Rutgers email will be unable to view the message.
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0019442 Rutgers Connect Recommended university-supported alternatives for Microsoft Publisher "
Microsoft has announced permanent retirement for Microsoft Publisher on October 1, 2026. After that date, Publisher will no longer be included in Microsoft 365 subscriptions, and support for existing versions will end. For more information, see the Exporting Publisher files documentation. 
Across all features and capabilities, Adobe InDesign is the most comparable to Microsoft Publisher. However, list of recommended alternatives that are Rutgers-supported include:
•	Adobe Creative Cloud 
o	Adobe Acrobat Pro (Digital Operations & Document Finalization)
o	Adobe Express (Personal & Event Design)
o	Adobe Illustrator (Vector-Based Designing & Branding)
o	Adobe InDesign (Professional Multi-Page Layout & Visual Architecture Publishing)
o	Adobe Photoshop (Raster Imaging & Visual Manipulation)
•	Microsoft 
o	PowerPoint (Presentation Design & Linear Storytelling)
o	Word (Business Operations, Correspondence & Data-Driven Documents)
 
Rutgers-supported alternative software feature comparison
Software	Functionality	Availability & quality of assessed features	Details
Adobe Acrobat Pro
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Back to top	Business Stationery & Operations	Best	The gold standard for fillable forms, password protection, and legally binding e-signatures.
Mail Merge	Technical Only	 Does not have a "Mail Merge" button. It uses "Form Data Injection" where you import a data file to populate existing form fields.	
Object Nudging	Basic	 You can nudge objects with arrow keys in "Edit PDF" mode, but there is no coordinate system for precise mathematical placement.	
Page Guides	Manual	 You can pull guides from the rulers, but they are static. They don't "snap" as intelligently as InDesign's and cannot be set on a Master Page.	
Personal & Event Design	Poor	 Lacks artistic brushes, effects, and the "canvas" feel needed for creative design work.	
Professional Marketing	Limited (Final Prep)	 You cannot easily build a layout from scratch. It is used to "preflight" (verify colors/resolution) before sending a file to a professional press.	
Text Box Linking	Not available	 Text exists in isolated blocks. If you add a sentence to Paragraph A, it will not push Paragraph B to the next page; it will simply overlap.	
Adobe Express	Business Stationery & Operations	(For Business Stationery)
Excellent	Best for creating the visual templates for letterheads, business cards, and envelopes. You can "lock" the Rutgers logo so it can't be moved by mistake.
Back to top	(For Business Operations)
Good (Front-End)	Great for designing the "shells" of documents (invoices, resumes, certificates). It does not handle back-end math or database links.	
(For Brand Kits) 
Best-in-Class	You can upload Rutgers Scarlet and official fonts into a "Brand Kit." With one click, you can "Brandify" any template to match university standards.		
(For PDF Management) 
Very Good	It can import, edit, and stylize existing PDFs. It’s useful for making a boring operational PDF look professional without needing Acrobat.		
(For Automation) 
Poor	No native Mail Merge or database connectivity. You cannot use it to generate 500 personalized invoices from a spreadsheet.		
Mail Merge	Not available	There is no native way to connect a spreadsheet to Adobe Express to generate personalized versions of a design.	
Object Nudging	Excellent	Very intuitive. It uses "Magnetic Guides" that show you exactly when an object is centered or aligned with another element. You can also nudge with arrow keys.	
Page Guides	Basic	It provides a "Grid" view and automatic snap-guides, but you cannot drag custom, permanent non-printing lines onto the canvas like you can in InDesign.	
Personal & Event Design	Best	This is the tool's core strength. Thousands of high-quality templates for invitations, posters, and "Save the Dates."	
Professional Marketing	Good (Templates)	Excellent for social media, simple flyers, and digital ads. It’s less ideal for high-end print brochures that require CMYK color accuracy.	
Text Box Linking	Not available	Express is a single-frame design tool. You cannot link text boxes to flow content across pages; each page is a separate design canvas.	
Adobe Illustrator	Business Stationery & Operations	Excellent	Best for designing the "source" files for letterheads and business cards to ensure logos stay crisp at any size.
Back to top	Mail Merge	Technical (Variables)	Possible via the "Variables" panel and XML files, but it’s a high-friction process compared to Word or InDesign.
Object Nudging	Best	Offers hyper-precise nudging. You can set your "Keyboard Increment" in Preferences to literally any decimal of a point or millimeter.	
Page Guides	Robust	Uses "Artboards" instead of pages. You can have global guides or artboard-specific guides, plus "Smart Guides" that snap to every anchor point.	
Personal & Event Design	High	Great for "from-scratch" creative work (custom illustrations, complex typography), but overkill for simple template-based flyers.	
Professional Marketing	Excellent (Single Page)	The gold standard for logos, icons, and single-page assets like posters or decals that need to be infinitely scalable.	
Text Box Linking	Good (Area Type)	Supports "Threaded Text" between shapes, but it’s less stable than InDesign for long documents and doesn't handle "Overset" text as gracefully.	
Adobe InDesign	Business Stationery & Operations	Excellent	Handles precise letterheads and business cards; supports interactive PDF forms for operations.
Back to top	Mail Merge	Powerful	Features a robust "Data Merge" tool that pulls information from .csv or .txt files into business stationery, badges, or catalogs. The "Data Merge" panel allows you to automate thousands of personalized documents using .csv data.
Object Nudging	Precision-Grade	Extremely precise nudging via arrow keys or the "Step and Repeat" function. Nudge by 0.001pt increments. Includes "Step and Repeat" for creating perfect grids of objects instantly.	
Page Guides	Robust Architecture	Features "Parent Pages" (Master Pages), Baseline Grids, Supports "Liquid Layouts," custom margins, and non-printing document guides for perfect and precise alignment across hundreds of pages.	
Personal & Event Design	Excellent	Total creative freedom, though it lacks the one-click templates found in Express or Designer.	
Professional Marketing	Best	Designed specifically for high-end print and digital marketing (brochures, magazines, brand guides).	
Text Box Linking	Native Feature	Uses "Text Threading." Text flows automatically between or across frames, pages (including across non-consecutive pages), and even different sections.	
Adobe Photoshop	Business Stationery & Operations	Moderate	Good for high-impact business cards with heavy photo effects, but poor for managing consistent letterheads across an office.
Back to top	Mail Merge	Technical (Variables)	It has a "Variables" feature to swap images/text based on a data set, but it is far more complex to set up than Word.
Object Nudging	Best	Pixel-perfect control. Use the arrow keys for 1px nudges or Shift + Arrow for 10px "super-nudges."	
Page Guides	Excellent	Features "New Guide Layout" which can instantly generate complex grids, columns, and gutters for your canvas.	
Personal & Event Design	Excellent	The best tool for digital art, photo collages, and "moody" event posters where the image is the star.	
Professional Marketing	High (Visuals)	Essential for the "hero image" of a campaign, but frustrating for text-heavy layouts or multi-page brochures.	
Text Box Linking	Not available	Photoshop treats text as an isolated layer. If you have more text than fits in a box, it simply disappears; it will not flow into another box.	
Microsoft PowerPoint	Business Stationery & Operations	Basic	You can design letterheads here, but it’s difficult to set up as a locked template for others to type in (Word is better for the "typing" phase).
Back to top	Mail Merge	Not available (Native)	PowerPoint does not have a built-in Mail Merge feature. You would need to design in PowerPoint, export as an image, and then perform the merge in Word or InDesign.
Object Nudging	Excellent	Precise, 1-pixel nudge control using arrow keys. Holding Ctrl while nudging (Ctrl + Arrow) allows sub-pixel nudging for even finer precision. The "Smart Guides" (red dashed lines) are the best in the Microsoft suite and make alignment very intuitive.	
Page Guides	Excellent	By right-clicking the canvas and selecting Grid and Guides, you can add infinite vertical and horizontal non-printing lines to align your elements.	
Personal & Event Design	Excellent	PowerPoint's user-friendly drag-and-drop interface enables anyone to effortlessly create professional-quality event invitations and social media graphics.	
Professional Marketing	Moderate, Good (for Single Page)	Good for text-heavy newsletters or resumes, but poor for complex image-heavy brochures. Excellent for posters, flyers, and simple social media graphics. It’s much easier to move objects around than in Word.	
Text Box Linking	Not available	PowerPoint cannot "thread" or "flow" text from one box to another. If your text overflows Box A, you must manually cut and paste the remainder into Box B.	
Microsoft Word	Business Stationery & Operations	Best-in-Class	The absolute gold standard for letterheads, memos, and internal reports. It integrates perfectly with the rest of Rutgers' Outlook system.
Back to top	Mail Merge	Industry Leader	The most powerful and user-friendly mail merge available. It connects directly to Excel or Outlook contacts.
Object Nudging	Good	You can nudge with arrow keys, but Word's "Layout Options" (Wrap Text) often make objects jump unexpectedly.	
Page Guides	Poor	Word doesn't have "Design Guides." It relies on Margins and Rulers. You can't drag a "non-printing line" onto the page to align a logo.	
Personal & Event Design	Basic	Best for "utilitarian" events (meeting agendas, basic flyers). It lacks the creative templates and layering tools of Adobe Express.	
Professional Marketing	Moderate	Good for text-heavy newsletters or resumes, but poor for complex image-heavy brochures.	
Text Box Linking	Hidden Gem	Most people don't know Word can do this. You can create "Links" between text boxes so text flows from Box A to Box B.	
" KB0012639 Rutgers Connect Removing and re-adding Mobile Device Management on iOS devices "
If installing for the first time, follow the guide on enabling mobile device management on iOS devices instead. 
1.	Open the Intune Company Portal app on your iOS device. Select the "..." icon located on the main screen.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Select Remove Device.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Select Remove.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	On the bottom right-hand side of the screen, select More. Then select the Sign Out option.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	After receiving the Sign In prompt, your device is now successfully unenrolled. To re-add it, select Sign In.

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	You should be prompted to re-login with your Rutgers Connect account. If your Rutgers Connect account is presented, please select it. If you do not see an account listed, select the option to Sign in with another account.

     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	After selecting your account, select Continue.

     Error! Filename not specified.
8.	Select Begin.

     Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Select Continue.

     Error! Filename not specified.
10.	Select Continue.

     Error! Filename not specified.
11.	Manually navigate to the Profiles section of the Settings app (Settings > General > Profiles) and select Install.

     Error! Filename not specified.
12.	Enter your device password.

     Error! Filename not specified.
13.	Accept the root certificate by selecting Install.

     Error! Filename not specified.
14.	Select Trust.

     Error! Filename not specified.
15.	Select Done.

     Error! Filename not specified.
16.	Your device will need the following page opened. Please select Open.

     Error! Filename not specified.
17.	The Intune Company Portal App will confirm your device is in compliance. If there are settings without a green checkmark, select the outstanding setting to have it updated to our compliance standards. When all settings have a green checkmark, select Done.

     Error! Filename not specified.
18.	Open your preferred mail client on your device. You should be prompted to enter your Rutgers Connect credentials.
Troubleshooting
1.	Uninstall Intune Company Portal by going to your iPhone Settings > General > iPhone Storage > Comp Portal > Delete App. Then go to iPhone Settings > General > VPN & Device Management.
2.	If you see a Management Profile, go into it and click Remove Management.
3.	Reinstall the Intune Company Portal App. 
4.	Ensure you have the Microsoft Authenticator app installed in addition to the Intune Company Portal app.  
o	If the app Microsoft Authenticator is already installed on the device, please do the following: 
1.	Make sure you have the latest Microsoft Authenticator from the store. 
2.	Open Microsoft Authenticator; it doesn't matter if you don't use it for anything else.
3.	From the hamburger menu, choose Help > Reset your accounts.
4.	When the warning appears, confirm you want to proceed. 
o	If the app Microsoft Authenticator is not installed on the device, please do the following: 
1.	On your Apple device, locate and open the Intune Company Portal app. This was installed when you enrolled your device with Intune. 
2.	Sign in to Company Portal with your work credentials (your work email address and password) if prompted. 
3.	Once signed in, tap or click the Apps section in Company Portal. 
4.	Locate Microsoft Authenticator in the apps list. You can use the search bar at the top if needed, or look for "Authenticator" in the Category “Productivity”. 
5.	Tap Install next to Microsoft Authenticator. Company Portal will begin downloading and installing the application. 
6.	Wait for the installation to complete. You will see a confirmation once the app has been successfully installed on your device. 
5.	You do not need to log in to the Microsoft Authenticator application; simply have it downloaded on the device.? 
6.	Go to your iPhone/iPad Settings > Apps > Mail > Mail Accounts > Rutgers Connect and sign in. 
7.	Return to the Apple Mail app. If the app is still showing an authentication prompt or error, remove the work account and re-add it: go to Settings > Mail > Accounts, remove your work account, then add it again using your work email address. 
8.	Apple Mail should now be able to complete authentication and begin syncing your work email, calendar, and contacts. 
Additional information can be found in the article Apple Mail Connectivity Issue - 04/05/2026.
For Self-Service device management, such as lost or stolen devices, more information can be found in Manage your Connect Devices and Licenses.
" KB0012643 Rutgers Connect Restoring mail from Online Archive in Outlook "
These instructions assume that Outlook is configured to connect to Rutgers Connect via Exchange. If this is not set up, please use the instructions on setting up Outlook with Rutgers Connect
From the desktop client, you should see your online archive under your folders on the left-hand side. The section will be labeled online archive - netid. Double-click the archive the first time to access it. Afterward, everything in the archive should populate, and you can view your archived folders and emails.
Table of Contents
•	Copy folder
•	Copy emails to a non-archive folder
•	Moving messages to a non-archive folder
•	Copying Messages Using PST Import
Copy folder
To return an email from the archive to your non-archived mail, there are a couple of ways. First, you can copy a folder using the right-click copy folder option. Then paste the folder in your non-archived mail. Note that this will create a new copy of the folder rather than merge it with another folder of the same name.
 
     Error! Filename not specified.
Copy emails to a non-archive folder
If you want to return the contents of the archived folder to a non-archived folder of the same name, you can do the following. Go into the archived folder and select all messages. You can do this by pressing the keyboard shortcut Ctrl + A. Then copy the emails by right-clicking and selecting Copy, or using the keyboard shortcut Ctrl + C.
 
     Error! Filename not specified.
Then select your destination folder in your non-archived mail and paste the emails using the keyboard shortcut Ctrl + V. Depending on how many emails you are moving, Outlook may hang for a bit as it processes all the information. If you wish to undo the copy/paste,e you can use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl + Z.
Moving messages to a non-archive folder
An alternative way to move the email is to select all the emails you wish to move, then right-click and select Move from the drop-down. You should see another drop-down with destination folders listed. Select your desired folder destination. If your desired destination folder is not listed, select other folder. A new window with all your available folders should pop up. Select your desired destination folder from the list. Note that this method does not make a copy of the email; it moves the existing email. If you wish to undo your actions, you will need to move the emails back the same way.
     Error! Filename not specified.
Copying Messages Using PST Import
1.	An additional way to move files is to import/export .pst files. Select either the Online Archive header or the individual folder in your archive that you want to move. Select File from the top of the page, then select Open & Export, then select Import/Export.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	The import and export wizard should pop up. Select Export to a file and click Next.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Select Outlook Data File (.pst) and click Next.
4.	Your pre-selected folder or archive to export should already be highlighted on the next screen; if it is not, select it now. Note that if you are selecting a folder with a subfolder you want to export, be sure that the Include subfolders box is checked. Click Next, and you will be prompted to choose where on your computer you would like to save your file.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Click Browse if you wish to change the location. Select the option you desire regarding duplicates, then click Finish.

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	You may be asked to create a password for the .pst file. If you do not wish to password-protect the file, click OK. The size of the folder/archive you are exporting will affect how long it takes to export. Once complete, you should see your file in the location you selected for saving.
7.	Now that you have the export file, you can import it into your non-archived mail. To do this, first select the folder you wish to import your Archived messages to. Next, select File > Open & Export > Import/Export.

     Error! Filename not specified.
8.	In the pop-up wizard, select Import from another program or file, then click Next.

     Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Select Outlook Data file (.pst) and click Next.
10.	Select the file and options, then click Next.

     Error! Filename not specified.
11.	Select the folders from the file you wish to import, select Import items into the same folder in your account, and click Finish. You should now find the archived emails in your non-archived mail with the same folder file structure.

     Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0012645 Rutgers Connect Rutgers Connect account audits "
Who can have a Rutgers Connect account?
According to Office of Information Technology guidelines, only the following classes of people are eligible to have Rutgers Connect accounts:
•	On-boarded (current and future) employees of Rutgers University
•	Current students that handle Protected Health Information (PHI), such as RBHS students
•	Professor Emeritus
The following groups of people are not automatically eligible for Rutgers Connect accounts:
•	Former employees (including teaching/graduate assistants who may still be students but are not actively working for Rutgers)
•	Employees of other organizations who are performing work at Rutgers
•	Students (current and future) who do not handle PHI
•	Alumni
•	Retirees
Students from other units may be eligible if the departments or divisions they work for wish to sponsor them. Additionally, Rutgers Connect accounts may be provided to Guests, who are individuals who are conducting University business and are directly associated with the University, but are not officially on the University’s payroll. Examples of guests include visiting professors/scholars, members of auxiliary groups, and others who are working on University business or affiliated with the University.
These guests and students may be eligible for a Rutgers Connect account if a department or division of Rutgers is willing to sponsor them. Please contact your Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator for details.
Recently hired employees may be on-boarded to payroll by departmental HR staff, even with a future start date. The Rutgers Connect account will then automatically be available. If full on-boarding is not possible, departmental on-boarding staff may use the Early Employee NetID form to request early provisioning from OIT.
Note: Most students, retirees, and alumni are not eligible for Rutgers Connect; however, these groups are automatically eligible for an account on Rutgers ScarletMail. Please see the ScarletApps page for information about opening ScarletMail accounts.
How can I keep my Rutgers Connect account?
We determine which accounts should be closed by comparing Rutgers Connect accounts with the active roles (e.g. Faculty or Staff) of NetIDs listed in the University’s OpenRegistry (OR) service, which is used as the basis for the Rutgers Online Directory. The OR may have some information which needs to be corrected.
If you have received an account closure notice and you believe that this is in error, please find the group you belong to in the appropriate subsection below (Current Employees, Students, Guests, Others) and follow the instructions there.
Current Employees
You may not be listed in the OR as a current employee. To check this, go to the Search for People tool and search for your name. Review each result if you get more than one. If your name does not appear, contact your department’s Human Resources person.
When your entry appears, review the information there. If it is incorrect, contact your department’s Human Resources person.
After your department’s Human Resources person has corrected your record, your department’s Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator can verify that your account is no longer subject to closure.
Students
OIT cannot permit prior students (such as students on leave and alumni) access to Rutgers Connect, as the system contains Restricted data such as Protected Health Information (PHI). Students who are still in need of a non-PHI email account may use ScarletMail.
If you are a current student, first verify your status in OR. To check this, go to the Search for People tool and search for your name. Review each result if you get more than one. If your name does not appear, please inquire about your registration via One Stop.
When your entry appears, review the information there. If it is incorrect, please inquire about your registration via One Stop.
After you have corrected your course registration(s), your Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator can verify that your account is no longer subject to closure.
Guests
Guests will have to determine with their sponsor if Rutgers Connect, ScarletMail, or even no Rutgers email account (for example, using a home institution’s email service) is appropriate for their needs.
If you are affiliated with Rutgers but not actually employed full-time by Rutgers, you may request a guest account. Have a sponsor at the department you are working with go to the Guest Account site, and submit a request for you, which will be sent to our Accounts Office for processing. NOTE: A domain administrator within your department must activate a Connect account for you.
Every year, you must renew your guest account. You will be notified when the time to renew your account arrives (30 days prior to the expiration of the account).
Your Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator can assist your sponsor with submitting a Guest Account request and creating your Rutgers Connect account, if necessary.
Others
Retirees and alumni are automatically entitled to an account on Rutgers ScarletMail.
If you do not fit into any of the above categories, you may want to try contacting a department at Rutgers related to the work you do and ask if they would be willing to sponsor a Guest account for you.
We have no mechanism for people no longer associated with Rutgers to pay a fee and thus keep their accounts. These people should be able to pay for a full account on any number of Internet Service Providers (ISPs) or obtain a free email account from various web services. Rutgers cannot recommend one such group over another.
What is the typical account audit timeline?
Once an account is found to be ineligible for Connect:
•	On day one, i.e., same day found to be ineligible: The account is sent an email notification.
•	On day seven, i.e., approximately one week later: The account is locked out of Connect.
•	On day thirty-five, i.e., approximately 5 weeks later: The account is deleted from Connect.
If the account is found to be eligible for Connect at any time prior to deletion, the account will exit the audit.
Like all Rutgers NetID services, Rutgers Connect is subject to OIT NetID authentication processes. These practices may lock your Rutgers NetID – including Rutgers Connect access – on a different timeline. See the off-boarding process article for details about NetID authentication off-boarding. Please note that recent students in the “grace period” status described on that site are ineligible for the Rutgers Connect service. However, OIT will maintain data for the full duration of the “grace period” – the “day thirty-five" deletion does not apply in this case.
What should I do before the account is closed?
If you will be losing your Rutgers Connect account, you may want to take some of the following steps.
•	Use the Manage Email Addresses function to ensure you continue to receive Rutgers email. For example, retirees and alumni may be entitled to continuing email service on ScarletMail. They can set that as their delivery address and consider Migrating Rutgers Connect Personal Data to ScarletMail if appropriate.
•	Contact the IT staff in your department to determine the correct protocol for the data (email, contacts, and calendar) in your account. Departments that handle PHI or other sensitive data may have procedures put in place for security.
•	Notify your regular correspondents, mailing lists, etc., about your change of address. We cannot forward mail from a deleted account to another address.
•	You may want to use the “automatic reply” feature (available in the Settings after logging in at https://connect.rutgers.edu) to set up an automatic response, telling correspondents of the account’s eventual closure. Remember that the automatic reply feature will no longer work for you once your account has been fully deleted.
•	If you have it configured, remove your Work Hours and Location on your calendar. 
•	You will lose access to your Office 365 data once your account is deleted, so you will want to save your OneDrive for Business files to another location. Please contact your local IT staff to assist with this process.
What happens after the account is closed?
After your account is closed, you will lose access to your Rutgers Connect account. Your account will still receive email and any Office 365 applications associated with your account should still function as expected; however, you will no longer be able to sign in to the account.
Approximately 4 weeks after your account is closed, your Rutgers Connect account will be deleted.
After an account is deleted, you will no longer be able to access Office 365 services like email or OneDrive for Business. Your Office applications will move into a read-only, reduced functionality mode and display Unlicensed Product notifications.
Any e-mail addressed to such an account will be returned to the sender (“bounced”) with an automatic message of the type “Access denied”.
For further assistance
If you have questions about any of the above, you can send an email to help@oit.rutgers.edu or contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0012665 Rutgers Connect Sending Encrypted Email in Outlook "
Table of Contents
•	How to Encrypt an Email
•	Encrypt Options 
o	Encrypt
o	Do Not Forward
o	Rutgers Connect – Confidential
o	Rutgers Connect – Confidential View Only
o	Keyword Triggered
•	Outlook Application
Office 365's Office Message Encryption (OME) provides you the ability to customize the level of protection for any specific email you choose to encrypt. You can choose to encrypt the email, ensuring it is received exclusively by your intended recipient, or to limit their ability to forward it to others. For messages that require the greatest amount of security, you can choose to allow the email to only be viewed by or forwarded to other Rutgers Connect users, or even limit the Rutgers Connect recipient to view the email and be unable to copy, print, forward, or otherwise interact with the message. These options will be described in more detail later.
How to Encrypt an Email
Navigate to Rutgers Connect and log in. You can use these functions by clicking the Options tab on the ribbon, then clicking the Encrypt button at the top of your email in the Outlook Web App.
Error! Filename not specified.
In the Outlook Web App, when you click Protect, a banner appears at the top of your email that says "Do Not Forward: Recipients can read this message, but they can’t forward, print, or copy content." It will also include options to change the permission level or remove the protection altogether.
Error! Filename not specified.
If you select the option to change the permission level, you will see four options.
Error! Filename not specified.
Error! Filename not specified.
Encrypt Options
Encrypt
If you choose Encrypt, the message's contents will be encrypted. You can learn more about encryption here, but at a very basic level, you can imagine this as your message being converted into a secret code, with only authorized users (your intended message recipient) having the key to decrypt that encoded text back into your original message.
When you choose Encrypt, the recipient can do whatever they want with the message once they receive it. They can copy text from the message, print it, save it to their computer, reply to it, or forward it to other users. Encryption adds a layer of security that ensures your intended recipient is the only one who can receive your message – but it does not control what they can do with it once they have.
Do Not Forward
If you want a little bit more control over the message you are sending, you can choose the Do Not Forward option. This option encrypts the message as described above and also prevents the user from copying, printing, or forwarding its contents.
Rutgers Connect – Confidential
Choosing this option will only allow the message to be sent to other Rutgers Connect users. It is similar to Encrypt in that, while the message is protected, the recipient can still save, reply to, and forward it. It may only be forwarded to other Rutgers Connect users.
Rutgers Connect – Confidential View Only
This is the most restrictive option. If you choose this option, the recipient – who must be a Rutgers Connect user – will be able to view the message only. They will not be able to reply, forward, copy, or edit the message.
Keyword Triggered
For backward compatibility with our previous encryption service, Zix Corporation, any message containing the keyword "ZIXSECURE" in the subject or body and leaving Rutgers Connect will have OME encryption applied to it. OIT does not recommend using keywords to force encryption. The keyword feature has been retained for specialized cases and may be removed completely in the future, as it is being replaced by OME's encryption features.
Outlook Application
In the Outlook application, which can be installed locally on your computer for more robust email management, you can find the option with the Encrypt button when you select Options.
Error! Filename not specified.
From Outlook, once you click Encrypt you will see a message stating "Encrypt Only – This message is encrypted." You can change the permission level by clicking the small arrow to the right of the Encrypt button.
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0012670 Rutgers Connect Setting up Apple mail and Apple calendar for Rutgers Connect "
1.	Click on the Apple Icon on the top left and select System Preferences.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	From the Preferences menu, click Internet Accounts.
3.	If this is the first account you’re creating in Internet Accounts, click Exchange.
4.	If you’ve previously created an email account for a different email address, in the lower-left corner of the Accounts dialog box, click + to add an account, and then click Exchange.
5.	Enter a display name for your account in the Name field, and your NetID@domain.rutgers.edu address in the Email Address field.
6.	If you are using macOS Catalina or later, you will see a dialogue box asking if you want to use Microsoft to log in.
7.	Choose Sign In and log in with your NetID and password. You will now be set up.
If you are using an older version of macOS, use the steps below.
1.	On the Internet Accounts Exchange pane, use the following settings and then click Sign In. 
o	Name: Your Name
o	Email Address Field: Please enter your Sign In address. This will be in the format of netid@domain.rutgers.edu. 
	If you would like confirmation of your Rutgers Connect sign-in information, visit the NetID Management Page and click Manage Email Addresses. Your sign-in name can be found in the Rutgers Connect Account Information section.
o	Password: Your Rutgers NetID password.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click Done or Sign In to complete the setup.
" KB0012672 Rutgers Connect Setting up OneDrive for Business on Mac "
The following instructions can be used to connect to OneDrive on Rutgers Connect.
1.	Download OneDrive from the App Store.
2.	Open OneDrive and click Sign In.
3.	Sign in with your Rutgers Connect Domain Email Address and your NetID password.
4.	Select your OneDrive Folder location where you'd like to store your files and click Choose this location.
5.	You’ll now see a path to the folder you selected. Click Next to continue.
6.	You can then choose the folders you want to sync to your computer, and click Next. This conserves space on your computer and reduces the bandwidth needed for the sync processes.
7.	Click Open my OneDrive folder to see your files.
For more information, visit Microsoft's guide on setting up OneDrive for Mac. 
" KB0012673 Rutgers Connect Setting up OneDrive for Business on Windows "
OneDrive is a cloud storage, file hosting service that allows users to sync files and later access them from a web browser or mobile device. Users can share files publicly or with their contacts, publicly shared files do not require a Microsoft account to access.
To get started and access your OneDrive, please follow the steps below. 
1.	Start the OneDrive For Business program on your computer, or OneDrive, depending on your version.  

     Error! Filename not specified.

This screen will be displayed.

       Error! Filename not specified.
1.	To Login: 
o	Instructors will use their Rutgers Connect account.
o	Students will use their Scarlet Mail account. 
2.	After authenticating, you will be directed to a screen similar to the one below, where you will pick a spot to sync your OneDrive files to.

     Error! Filename not specified.
    
3.	Once you have selected where to sync your files, there will be several slides that explain how OneDrive functions on the machine. We recommend reviewing these slides if you have never used OneDrive on a desktop before.

     Error! Filename not specified.
     
4.	At the end of this slideshow, you will be able to open your OneDrive folder. This is where your OneDrive directory will appear, but not everything may be synced down to the machine just yet.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Now your OneDrive for Business folder will be displayed when using the File Explorer. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
For more information, visit Microsoft's guide on setting up OneDrive for Windows. 
" KB0012674 Rutgers Connect Setting up Outlook 365 on Mac "
If you do not already have Office 365 installed, follow the instructions on downloading it for Faculty/Staff, or Students, and then follow the steps below. 
1.	Open Outlook. Then, on the toolbar, click on Outlook > Settings.

    Error! Filename not specified.
2.	From the menu that opens up, select Accounts.

    Error! Filename not specified.
3.	If you don’t already have an account set up, you can click on Add Email Account; otherwise, you can click on the + located under the accounts list.

    Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Enter your Connect email in the Email address box and click Continue.

    Error! Filename not specified.
5.	You will be directed to the NetID login page. Enter your NetID Password and click Sign in.

    Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Approve the Duo prompt using one of your two-step authentication methods. You should now be configured to use your Connect email on Outlook. 
" KB0012676 Rutgers Connect Setting up Outlook with Rutgers Connect "
Accessing your Rutgers Connect Account
If you are unsure of your account credentials, please refer to the Getting Started with Rutgers Connect article before proceeding with accessing your account through Outlook. 
Signing into Rutgers Connect with Outlook
1.	First, open Outlook then select File > Add Account. Depending on the version of Outlook you have, you will see one of the 2 windows below. 
2.	Fill out the request information as noted below: 
o	Name: Your name
o	Email Address Field: Please enter your Sign-In address. This will be in the format of netid@domain.rutgers.edu. 
	If you would like confirmation on what your Rutgers Connect sign-in information is, please visit the NetID Management page and select Manage Email Addresses on the left. Your sign-in name can then be found in the Rutgers Connect Account Information section.
o	Password: Your Rutgers NetID password

     Error! Filename not specified.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Outlook will connect to the system and download all of the configuration settings. You may be asked to confirm your Email and Password again. Select Finish, and you will be connected to Rutgers Connect.
" KB0012687 Rutgers Connect Shared Outlook Inbox Mobile Setup Android and iOS "
If you use Outlook for iOS or Outlook for Android, you can add a shared mailbox that you have permissions to access on Outlook Mobile.
Use a Shared Mailbox on a Mobile Device (Phone or Tablet)
To access a shared mailbox on a mobile device, use the following steps:
1.	Sign in to your primary account in Outlook for iOS or Android.
2.	Tap the Add Account button in the left navigation pane, then tap Add a Shared Mailbox.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	If you have multiple accounts in Outlook Mobile, select the account that has permissions to access the shared mailbox.

     Error! Filename not specified.
After the account setup process completes, the shared mailbox will display in your account list in Outlook for iOS or Outlook for Android.
Remove a Shared Mailbox on a Mobile Device (Phone or Tablet)
To remove a shared mailbox, go to Settings > Accounts. Then tap on the shared mailbox and select Delete Account.
For more information, visit Microsoft Support page on how to Add a Shared Mailbox to Outlook Mobile. 
" KB0012689 Rutgers Connect SharePoint roles and permission levels "
SharePoint offers default and custom permission levels to better manage user roles on specific sites. Below is a breakdown of common out-of-the-box permission levels and their intended roles.
Permission Level	Role
Read	•	Read and download site content
•	Browse site content
•	Search site content
•	Request higher access level
Contribute	•	All rights and responsibilities of the above role
•	Create, edit and delete list items and documents
Edit	•	All rights and responsibilities of the above roles
•	Can add, edit and delete lists
Design	•	All rights and responsibilities of the above roles
•	Create/Edit libraries
•	Change page structure and visual design
•	Add/Edit web parts
Full Control	•	All rights and responsibilities of the above roles
•	Administer permissions
 
These permission levels are collections of individual user permissions and can vary depending on the SharePoint template being used. The ones above are just some of the most common you will find on most sites. It is important to note that these are just collections of permissions; in order for them to be effective, they need to be applied to permission groups on the SharePoint site. SharePoint sites by default come with the following groups that have one of the above permission levels applied to them:
 
Permission Group	Permission Level
site-name Visitors	•	Read
site-name Members	•	Edit
site-name Owners	•	Full Control
 
As an example, a Teams-connected SharePoint site will have the site members' permission group populated with the 365 group's members, and the site owners' permission group will be populated with the 365 group's owners.
Visit the SharePoint website for additional information regarding sharing files, folders, and sites in SharePoint Online.
" KB0012703 Rutgers Connect Types of SharePoint sites "
Microsoft SharePoint offers a wide variety of sites to fulfill business objectives ranging from document storage to communicating department initiatives. Below is an outline for various SharePoint sites and their unique advantages.
Table of Contents
•	Team Sites 
o	Site Header
o	Left-hand Navigation and Search Pane
o	Overview
•	Communication Sites 
o	Topic Site Design
o	Showcase Site Design
o	Overview
•	Hub Sites 
o	Overview
•	Additional Resources about SharePoint Online Sites
Team Sites
Team sites allow members to collaborate on projects, events, or ideas by connecting them to the content, information, and web apps they need. On a team site home page, you can view links to valuable team files, web apps, and pages, as well as view recent site changes in the activity feed. Team sites are integrated by default within a wide range of Microsoft collaboration tools, such as Microsoft Planner and Microsoft Teams.
Error! Filename not specified.
Site Header
At the top of the team site, you will see a header with the site name, site logo, and whether the site is public (anyone in the organization can view) or private (only specific members can view). Site members with edit permissions will also see a “New” button that allows them to add a new list, document library, page, news post, or web app.
Error! Filename not specified.
Left-hand Navigation and Search Pane
At the top left of the site, you will see a search box where you can find files stored on the team site. Under the search box, you will see links to the default team document library, team OneNote notebook, site pages, site contents, site recycle bin, and custom links.
Error! Filename not specified.
Overview
Best for: Central location for team collaboration and document storage.
Permissions: Includes Office 365 group permissions, as well as default SharePoint group and permission levels.
Content Authors: All members who can create and edit content are content authors.
Availability: Can be created by the site owner or administrator as a site collection or subsite.
Use Cases: 
•	Project team working together to share ideas and manage tasks
•	Team storing important documents for current projects
Communication Sites
Communication sites are used to share information in a visually compelling format, featuring news posts, reports, events, statuses, and lists. These sites are great for displaying information to a broad audience, with a few members contributing to the content. When creating a team site, you can start with a blank site or choose a template (showcase or topic) site design that comes with a default set of web parts.
Topic Site Design
The Topic site design focuses on sharing important information, such as news and events, regarding a subject.
Error! Filename not specified.
Showcase Site Design
The Showcase site design focuses on effectively sharing information, such as product or team images.
Error! Filename not specified.
Overview
Best for: Showcasing content, including announcements, articles, services, and people, effectively.
Permissions: Default SharePoint permission levels.
Content Authors: A small number of authors and a larger number of viewers.
Availability: Can be created by the site owner or the SharePoint administrator only as a site collection.
Use Cases: 
•	Site showcasing new department initiative.
•	Intranet site for the HR department, including news posts from various employees.
Hub Sites
Hub sites are used to showcase, connect, and organize a wide variety of related sites into a central site. By connecting a family of team and communication sites, discovering related content, such as news and various site activities, becomes easier. Sites associated with a SharePoint hub site will have a hub site navigation bar added to the top of the site.
Error! Filename not specified.
Overview
Best for: Central site used to display and navigate to related team and communication sites.
Permissions: Default SharePoint permission levels.
Content Authors: The hub site owner defines the hub navigation and theme. Hub site members create content on the hub site. Site owners and members of sites associated with the parent hub site create content on their respective sites.
Availability: Can be created by a Global administrator or a SharePoint administrator.
Use Cases: 
•	University hub that provides navigation to different departments, such as Accounting, Information Technology, and Finance.
•	A specific hub site that groups the communication and team sites for a specific location (Busch Campus)
•	A sales hub that provides enterprise resources to the sales organization and connects them to various communication sites
Although SharePoint sites allow for advanced customization based on a variety of needs, there are limitations to the content management system. Below are a few to keep in mind:
•	Sites are limited to being shared internally among the organization, with the correct permission level to view.
•	Embedding custom scripts to alter site behavior or appearance is not supported.
•	Resizing of imported images is currently not supported.
•	News posts can only feature a single author.
•	Adding images to text boxes is not supported.
•	For storage of confidential documents, please use Perceptive Content (formerly ImageNow)
•	Teams chats cannot be embedded on SharePoint pages.
________________________________________
Additional Resources about SharePoint Online Sites
Plan your SharePoint communication site
How to customize your SharePoint website
More information on types of sites in SharePoint
View usage data for your SharePoint site
" KB0012708 Rutgers Connect Using Scheduling Poll to Schedule Meetings "
As of December 2023, the FindTime add-in has been retired. Scheduling Poll is the replacement feature and is built directly into Outlook as a native feature. 
The new Scheduling Poll feature, in replacement of the FindTime add-in, is used to schedule meetings via polling. The organizer can send multiple time options through the Scheduling Poll feature and minimize the back-and-forth emails about scheduling. 
The Scheduling Poll feature is currently available to users of Microsoft 365 Apps for business or enterprise plans that include Exchange Online. It is currently supported for GCC tenants, excluding GCC High.
A meeting organizer is required to have a mailbox in Microsoft 365 Exchange Online to be able to use the Scheduling Poll feature, while anyone with a valid email address can be an attendee in a meeting that utilizes the Scheduling Poll feature for polling. This feature is not available to organizers with mailboxes on an Exchange On-Premises server.
Access Scheduling Poll
1.	Navigate and log in to your Rutgers Connect account. 
2.	Create a new email or select an email to reply to.
3.	List required attendees for the meeting in the To field and optional attendees in the Cc field.
4.	Select Scheduling poll in the Message tab, which is displayed in the Simplified Ribbon or Classic Ribbon. 

Error! Filename not specified.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Create a new meeting event or select an existing event to edit it.
6.	List required attendees in the Invite attendees field and click Optional to add optional attendees.
7.	Select Scheduling poll in the Event tab, which is displayed in the Simplified Ribbon or Classic Ribbon. 
Create a Scheduling Poll
The organizer can send multiple time options through the Scheduling Poll and minimize the back-and-forth emails about scheduling. 
1.	Select the meeting settings.
o	View all your polls: Click this link to view and manage all the polls created by you.
o	Time zone: Select the time zone dropdown menu to change the time zone for the meeting.
o	Duration: Select a meeting duration from the list.
o	Meeting hours: Check to limit suggested meeting times to workdays and working hours only.
o	Date Picker: The date picker will allow you to pick different dates to see time availability. You can add times from different dates to a poll. Alternatively, you can use the left and right arrow buttons to go to the previous or next day and use the calendar icon (between the arrow buttons) to jump back to today.
2.	Scheduling Poll looks through the attendees' schedules (if available) and suggests a list of suitable meeting times. Factors used to determine the best options include how many attendees are free, how many required vs. optional attendees are free, and whether conflicted attendees have tentative or busy commitments on their calendar. 
o	People Icons: Hovering over the person icon will show participants’ availability and whether they are required or optional.  
	Underlined: Organizer
	Green: Available
	Red: Busy
	Purple: Out of Office
	Gray: Unknown
o	Expand/Collapse button: Will allow you to see a detailed list of participants’ availability and whether they are required or optional for a given time suggestion.
3.	Select a few suitable meeting times. The Next button will be enabled if you select one or more options.
4.	Select Next. You will be presented with the list of selected times and poll settings before you can finish creating the poll.

Error! Filename not specified.
1.	To delete any selected meeting times, click the delete icon in the Selected times list. 
2.	Enter meeting location if needed. 
3.	Select the Online Meeting check box to disable its default. 
4.	To view more options, use the Manage poll settings expand/collapse button.  
	Schedule when attendees reach consensus: A calendar event is automatically scheduled if all required attendees have voted in favor of a specific time option. If multiple options are available, the earliest option will be scheduled.
	Hold selected times on my calendar: A tentative event is placed on your calendar for each time option you propose. All holds are removed when the meeting is scheduled or the poll is canceled.
	Notify me about poll updates: You’ll receive an email each time an attendee votes. The message includes the current poll status and an option to schedule.
	Require attendees to verify their identity: To help prevent anonymous voting, attendees will be required to authenticate before voting.
	Lock poll for attendees: Attendees will not be able to suggest new times or edit other attendees.
5.	Select Create poll. Scheduling Poll inserts the poll details into your email body, which includes a link to the voting page and a link to all the polls you’ve created so far.
6.	Select Send to send the email and start the voting process.
For further information on Scheduling Poll voting, the organizer dashboard, or auto-scheduling, visit the Microsoft Support page for more Scheduling Poll articles. 
" KB0012714 Rutgers Connect View usage data for your SharePoint site "
Microsoft offers a guide for users on how to view the usage data for their SharePoint site.
" KB0012724 Rutgers Connect What is Microsoft SharePoint Online? "
?Microsoft SharePoint Online is a content management system that is part of the Office 365 suite of services. SharePoint provides a rich collaboration environment in which internal and external users can work together, manage content, and communicate information using a variety of SharePoint intranets and sites. Many of the functionalities that SharePoint has to offer integrate with a variety of Office 365 services such as Teams, OneDrive, Outlook, Forms, and PowerApps.
The cloud-based service empowers teamwork, lets users find valuable information, and allows seamless collaboration across various departments.
Getting Started with SharePoint
Why Should I Use SharePoint?
SharePoint provides a wide range of options to create a secure and productive file collaboration environment that meets users' needs. Information within SharePoint can be stored, organized, shared, and accessed from almost any device. Users can also automate many business processes and protect sensitive information using built-in data loss prevention capabilities. Thus, utilizing SharePoint allows departments to:
•	Store all information in a central location through document libraries & lists
•	Establish context around data through metadata
•	Encourage collaboration through intranets & site collections
" KB0012728 Rutgers Connect What to expect when sending to an unknown domain without TLS "
All email sent by users who have PHI flags is automatically secured with TLS Secure email. TLS is a cryptographic protocol that provides security between email servers. Most email servers are equipped to receive email that is sent via TLS. Rutgers is aware of some common email servers that are not equipped for TLS. If a PHI flagged user sends an email to one of these known email servers, Rutgers Connect will automatically use the built-in capabilities of Office 365's Office Message Encryption (OME) to protect your email.
If a PHI flagged user attempts to send an email to an email server that does not support TLS and is not known to Rutgers Connect, the sender will experience the following behavior:
•	Approximately 24 hours after you attempt to send the message, you will receive a standard delivery failure message similar to the following:

     Error! Filename not specified.
•	After your attempt to send the message, during those 24 hours, Rutgers Connect will retry to deliver the message in case the issue with TLS was temporary.
•	If you receive a similar failure message, you can resend the message and manually apply OME encryption by using the Encrypt button, as shown in the sending encrypted email article.
" KB0012929 Rutgers Connect FAQ "A suspicious-looking email was removed from my inbox, did someone go into my account?" "
No email filtering system is perfect, so occasionally a dangerous phishing message may get past Office 365's spam filtering. In the event that this happens, OIT will protect users by removing these messages from the mailboxes of all recipients post-delivery. Users may be concerned when they notice these messages disappearing from their mailboxes, but it is important to note that this removal does not indicate any compromise. The messages are removed without anyone from OIT accessing the user’s mailbox or reading their mail; it is done in bulk, and this admin activity is logged. Copies of the removed messages are preserved for a short period of time to ensure no unintended messages were removed.
" KB0012938 Rutgers Connect FAQ Am I required to install Intune and use MDM in order to use Rutgers Connect on a personal device?
It is only required to use Mobile Device Management if you want to use native Office applications on your mobile device or access your email through your phone's native mail app. This is to protect your private information and any University data shared with you in the event your mobile device is lost or stolen. You can use a mobile web browser to access your Rutgers Connect email and calendar without having to install Intune.
KB0012918 Rutgers Connect FAQ Can I forward email from Rutgers Connect to ScarletMail or other external mail systems? "
No. The Acceptable Use Policy states that all university business be conducted using the official university email and calendar service, Rutgers Connect. This is necessary to meet federal, state, and local legal, regulatory, and statutory requirements (e.g., HIPAA, OPRA, FERPA, GLBA), and to ensure business continuity, enable proper eDiscovery, and handle data securely and in compliance.
However, you may resend an individual message to an external email account.
We apologize for any inconvenience this may cause, but to keep it safe and secure, you are unable to forward mail automatically from Rutgers Connect.
" KB0012915 Rutgers Connect FAQ Can I send email as an address other than my actual Rutgers Connect address? "
Yes. Rutgers Connect allows users to send mail using a Personalized Email Address. Learn more about changing your default email address in Rutgers Connect.
Please note you will continue to need to use your primary email address in order to log in to Rutgers Connect.
" KB0012935 Rutgers Connect FAQ Can the administration search Rutgers’ email traffic and use eDiscovery tools to view email? "
All requests for access to email are carefully screened by Rutgers Legal and Compliance departments. Rutgers has been required to provide such data using various tools in the past, and the requirement remains unchanged.
Rutgers email administrators have always had the capability to access account holders’ email, but have done so only under the direct guidance of Rutgers Legal in response to subpoenas, eDiscovery requests, and OPRA requests. Additionally, Microsoft maintains strict records of who accesses accounts, which Rutgers cannot modify.
" KB0012933 Rutgers Connect FAQ How can I collect and send email headers in the OWA or the Outlook desktop client? "
Collecting email headers can be done the same way in OWA as in Outlook on both Windows and Mac. The easiest method is to compose a new email, then drag the email whose headers you want to collect into it. The message will be added as an attachment, and all of its information, including headers, will be available to the support staff you are asked to send it to. Although this is the easiest way, users who are concerned about sharing message content may prefer an alternative that shares only the message header.
View message headers in new Outlook
1.	Select More actions at the top of the message window.
2.	Select View > View message source
View message headers on the Outlook Web App or Outlook.com
1.	Select More actions at the top of the message window.
2.	Select View > View message details
View message headers in classic Outlook
1.	Double-click an email message to open it outside of the Reading Pane in classic Outlook for Windows.
2.	Click File > Properties.
3.	Header information appears in the Internet headers box.
" KB0012914 Rutgers Connect FAQ How do I change how my name is displayed in Rutgers Connect? "
By default, your name in Rutgers Connect is displayed as it appears in the payroll system. If you are in the process of a legal name change and your name will be changed in the payroll system, this change will be reflected in Rutgers Connect as well after it has been processed.
If you want your name displayed differently than how it appears in payroll, you will need to speak to your Rutgers Connect domain administrator. Not all changes are allowed, as your name must still identify you. Listed below are some common examples of acceptable display names:
•	Using an abbreviation of your first name (e.g., Bob instead of Robert, A. instead of Arthur).
•	Displaying your middle name instead of your first name, or an abbreviation or common form of your middle name.
•	Displaying a nickname instead of your first name.
•	Displaying your first name (or alternative forms) and last name in a different order.
Please note that this change will only affect the Global Address List. If anyone has you manually saved as a personal contact, that name will not be affected by the global change.
" KB0012941 Rutgers Connect FAQ How do I deal with messages that are incorrectly marked as Junk in Rutgers Connect? "
You can first mark the message as not junk by clicking the Not Junk button above the message. This will also whitelist the sender, so future messages from them do not go to your junk folder. If you notice that the Junk filtering system inappropriately and consistently marks certain messages as junk, you can forward messages to not_junk@office365.microsoft.com which can help improve the filtering system.
" KB0012920 Rutgers Connect FAQ How do I set up automatic replies/vacation messages in Rutgers Connect? "
Automatic replies can be enabled in the Outlook web app through the settings menu.
1.	Select the Gear icon next to your profile picture.
2.	Select View all Outlook settings.
3.	Under the Mail tab, navigate to Automatic replies.
Here, you can enable or disable automatic replies, format your away message, and select a time span for them to automatically begin and end.
" KB0012943 Rutgers Connect FAQ How do I share a file on OneDrive with users who are not affiliated with Rutgers University? "
To share an anonymous link:
1.	Select the file or folder and choose Share from the ribbon.
2.	You will see an option that usually says People You Specify Can Edit.
3.	Select this button and then choose Anyone.
4.	You will then have a link you can share externally.
" KB0012932 Rutgers Connect FAQ How do I turn off Conversation view in Connect Outlook Web App (OWA)? "
There are two methods to turn Conversation view off in the Outlook web app. 
Method 1
1.	Select the Gear icon in the top-right corner of the window, next to your profile picture.
2.	Under "Arrange message list," select Show each message separately.
Method 2
1.	In the ribbon, select the View tab.
2.	Select Messages > Conversations > Show each message separately.
" KB0012923 Rutgers Connect FAQ How do you attach an email to an email? "
Specific steps will vary depending on the email program you are using.
Outlook web app
1.	Open the folder containing the message to be attached.
2.	Create a new email message.
3.	Drag the message from the folder list into the new email message.
4.	Address the message and send it as usual.
Outlook desktop client
1.	Open the folder containing the message to be attached.
2.	Highlight the email in question.
3.	Press the Ctrl+Alt+F keys.
4.	Address the message and send it as usual.
Gmail (ScarletApps)
Method 1
1.	To the left of each email you want to forward, select the checkbox.
2.	At the top, click More and then Forward as an attachment.
3.	Address the message and send it as usual.
Method 2
1.	Right-click an email and select Forward as attachment.
2.	Drag and drop the file into the body of a new message.
3.	Address the message and send it as usual.
Thunderbird
1.	Open the folder containing the message to be attached.
2.	Create a new email message.
3.	In the Preview pane, click on the message and drag it into the body of a new message.
4.	Address the message and send it as usual.
" KB0012934 Rutgers Connect FAQ How does Rutgers Connect do searches? "
There are separate search tools within each of the major applications. For more information, visit Microsoft's articles on searching in the Outlook Web Application, Calendar, and OneDrive.
" KB0012921 Rutgers Connect FAQ How does Rutgers Connect handle folders and subfolders? "
Rutgers Connect has a hierarchical file structure, the same as most modern email programs. 
" KB0012937 Rutgers Connect FAQ How private is the information I keep on Rutgers Connect? "
In general, information on accounts on Rutgers services, including Rutgers Connect, is accessible only to the specific account holder until it is shared with others by that account holder. However, as Rutgers is a public university, all information on Rutgers services may be subject to legal requests, such as Open Public Records Act (OPRA) requests, court orders, or litigation.
Aside from such requests, the only people authorized to view these documents, other than the account holder, would be system administrators who have special privileges usable under very limited circumstances for this purpose.
At Rutgers, only a few highly trained individuals working for the Office of Information Technology (OIT) have this type of privilege. They work under clearly stated rules on privacy, user responsibilities, system administrator responsibilities, and violation handling. We take this very seriously. The specific circumstances are covered in the Acceptable Use Policy found in the Rutgers Policy Library.
For more information, visit Microsoft's privacy support page. 
Account holders should keep in mind that Rutgers email services are for work purposes and, as such, are not truly private.
" KB0012931 Rutgers Connect FAQ I'm not seeing all my folders in the Outlook Web Application. How do I see them all? "
When you first log in, the Outlook Web Application (OWA) displays only the most recently used folders. Click More below the folder list to see all of your folders. 
The first set of most recently used folders will appear as Favorites. The list of all other folders will appear below that, under your name.
A scroll bar will appear next to the folder list, if needed.
If a folder has sub-folders, the parent folder will have a “v” symbol next to it. Click that to see the sub-folders, which turns the “v” into “^”. Click the “^” again to hide the sub-folders.
For more information, visit Microsoft's article on working with message folders in Outlook on the web.
" KB0012946 Rutgers Connect FAQ Is IMAP/SMTP enabled for Rutgers Connect? "
IMAP/SMTP settings are disabled for all users by default. If you require the ability to use IMAP/SMTP with your Connect account, contact your Rutgers Connect delegated administrator.
" KB0012960 Rutgers Connect FAQ "Is it safe to store Non-Public Personal Info (NPPI), HIPAA, or other restricted data on Office 365?" "
Office 365 is compliant with HIPAA, FERPA, GLBA, and others. See Microsoft's page on data management.
Microsoft has provided Rutgers with a BAA.
Security for sensitive data needs to occur not just in the cloud but also on the Rutgers side, including how the data is stored, transmitted, and handled within the given department/unit of the University, and by users who have access to that data. A department/unit handling sensitive data may also want to speak to the Rutgers Ethics and Compliance office.
For HIPAA-covered units/departments, outgoing email will be routed through Zix for additional protection within Rutgers Connect.
" KB0012936 Rutgers Connect FAQ Is Rutgers Connect FISMA Compliant? "
No, Rutgers Connect is not currently FISMA-compliant. For more information on what can be stored on Connect, please review the data classification and storage matrix. 
The US Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP) was established to provide a standardized approach for assessing, monitoring, and authorizing cloud computing products and services under the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA), and to accelerate the adoption of secure cloud solutions by federal agencies.
Additional information can be found on Microsoft's FedRAMP website. 
 
" KB0012919 Rutgers Connect FAQ Is there an alternative login page if connect.rutgers.edu is not working? "
If you are experiencing issues with connect.rutgers.edu not loading properly, try logging in via outlook.office.com. You should be able to sign in as usual.
" KB0012924 Rutgers Connect FAQ What are the email attachment size limits for Rutgers Connect? "
Attachments are limited to 150 MB within Rutgers Connect, although the mail server used by a recipient outside of Rutgers Connect may not accept such a large attachment.
" KB0012942 Rutgers Connect FAQ What email accounts are retirees granted access to? "
Eligible retirees have access to a ScarletMail address. They should be migrated from Rutgers Connect to ScarletMail before their Guest, Faculty, or Staff role expires. You can learn more about retiree benefits at the Rutgers Retired Faculty and Staff Association page. Only retirees with an Emeritus role are eligible for continued access to their Rutgers Connect accounts. If a retiree believes they should be Emeritus, they should contact the Retiree Center or University Human Resources.
" KB0012944 Rutgers Connect FAQ What is the retention period for deleted items or items in my Connect junk folder? "
Deleted items will be kept in the trash or junk folder for 30 days, after which they will be moved to a recoverable items folder for an additional 30 days.
This is the maximum possible retention period.
" KB0012930 Rutgers Connect FAQ What type of spam filtering is available on Connect? "
Microsoft provides its own spam filtering service.
Learn more about the Junk Email Filter (for the Microsoft Outlook application) or learn about Junk email and phishing (for Outlook on the web).
If you receive a phishing scam or other malicious email, follow the directions on the Rutgers page on reporting suspected scams, breaches, or theft.
" KB0012947 Rutgers Connect FAQ for Delegated Admins Can I adjust a resource's settings in Connect? "
From the Exchange Admin Center, a delegated administrator can click their profile picture on the top right; a menu titled My accounts will appear. Then select Another user... and search for the resource they would like to configure. After opening the edit menu, you should be able to make the appropriate adjustments.
More information about admin access to resources in EAC is available within CAT Documentation.
" KB0012953 Rutgers Connect FAQ for Delegated Admins How can contact information in Rutgers Connect be updated? "
If the information displayed at Rutgers Search for a user is correct, but the contact information in Rutgers Connect is incorrect, please contact the OIT Help Desk.
If the information displayed in Rutgers Search is incorrect, the user will need to contact their department’s HR representative to have it corrected. Once the information is correctly updated in Rutgers Search, it should update in Rutgers Connect. If the corrected information has not been updated in Rutgers Connect after 1-2 business days, please contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0012957 Rutgers Connect FAQ for Delegated Admins How can I collect and send email headers in Mail on my Mac? "
1.	Go to the Mail app on your Mac.
2.	Choose View > Message > All Headers.
3.	To view fewer header fields again, choose View > Message > Default Headers.
This email can then be sent to the appropriate support staff as directed.
" KB0012958 Rutgers Connect FAQ for Delegated Admins How can I collect and send email headers in Thunderbird? "
1.	Open the email whose headers you would like to collect.
2.	Click View Source, which may be found under a dropdown labeled More above the email or under View in the menu at the top right corner of the Thunderbird window.
3.	Copy all text up to the first blank line and paste it into an email or a document that you can attach to an email.
This email can then be sent to the appropriate support staff as directed.
" KB0012951 Rutgers Connect FAQ for Delegated Admins How can I configure an auto-response for a shared or resource mailbox? "
From the Exchange Admin Center, a Delegated Admin can do the following.
1.	Click their profile picture on the top right.
2.	Click My accounts will appear.
3.	Select Another user...
4.	Search for and select the mailbox they would like to set up an auto-response for. 
5.	Choose Set up an automatic reply message and configure the auto-response as desired.
" KB0012955 Rutgers Connect FAQ for Delegated Admins How will eDiscovery and similar requests be handled for Connect? "
eDiscovery currently applies to all files stored on Rutgers Connect, including email, calendars, and OneDrive files. Office 365 features that are not HIPAA-compliant, etc., will not be available through Rutgers Connect for this reason. eDiscovery and OPRA requests will be centrally administered by OIT, removing this time-consuming task from departmental/unit IT staff. There are also eDiscovery tools and an Archive available for eDiscovery that simplify the handling of eDiscovery and OPRA requests.
Because all Rutgers Connect data is subject to such requests, people should not use Rutgers Connect for personal files or messages.
" KB0012950 Rutgers Connect FAQ for Delegated Admins Is there a limit to how many owners an Office 365 group or distribution list can have? "
Yes. Office 365 groups and distribution lists have a limit of 100 owners. However, this limit does not apply to members, and as a general rule, collaborators should be added as members rather than owners.
For a more detailed look at Office 365 group limits, see Microsoft's Group limits overview.
" KB0012959 Rutgers Connect FAQ for Delegated Admins "My user's Connect account is being audited, but they cannot change their password" "
There are rare circumstances during account audits when a user loses the ability to reset/change their password because they are no longer active in our authentication protocols. This would be true if the user no longer holds any roles at the University.
If you have a user who falls into this category, there are two options available:
•	Get the user a Guest NetID. You can set the guest role to remain active for an appropriate period so the user can access their Rutgers Connect account and remove the data they are interested in. Guest accounts can be requested through the Guest Request site
•	With the user’s consent, a domain admin may grant themselves full access to a user’s Rutgers Connect account. This can be done through the “mailbox delegation” section in EAC. Once a domain admin has full access to the account, they can create a PST of the user’s inbox to share with the user or extract the needed data.
" KB0012945 Rutgers Connect FAQ for Delegated Admins Who has access to the data in OneDrive? "
Any delegated administrator for your given domain will have access to the data in OneDrive, as is the current practice at Rutgers.
Data stored in OneDrive via Rutgers Connect is hosted on servers within the US. See Microsoft's security statements for more information.
" KB0012949 Rutgers Connect FAQ for Delegated Admins Why are the delegates for my room in Connect being asked to accept or decline booking requests? "
Currently, rooms use any listed delegates for the room, even if the room is set not to require delegate review of booking requests. Administrators can change various room settings, including delegation. If you do not need to use delegates for a room you have admin access to, you should remove the delegates. More information about admin access to resources in EAC is available in CAT Documentation.
" KB0012952 Rutgers Connect FAQ for Delegated Admins Why can't I share a resource calendar in Connect when I have Full Access? "
In Office 365, Send As permissions are distinct from Full Access permissions; you can have one without the other. If you are a delegated administrator with Full Access but not Send As, you can access a resource’s mailbox or calendar, but cannot share it. However, this can be easily remedied by granting yourself Send As privileges:
1.	Find your resource in the Exchange Admin Center and double-click it.
2.	Choose the tab in the pop-up window labeled Mailbox delegation, and add yourself to the Send As list.
" KB0012948 Rutgers Connect FAQ for Delegated Admins Why have I been getting so much spam in Connect since I whitelisted one of my other email addresses? "
When an email address is whitelisted in Connect, all mail forwarded to Connect from that address is whitelisted, causing an increase in spam volume. If a user has an outside address that forwards to Connect, spam sent to that address will be forwarded to Connect as well. Normally, Connect would filter the messages being forwarded from that address and sift out the spam, but if the address is whitelisted, then Connect will not apply spam filters and a higher-than-normal level of spam will accumulate in the user’s Connect inbox.
Users can check their whitelist themselves to see if they have whitelisted their own address; to navigate to your blacklist/whitelist in the Outlook Web App:
1.	Click the gear icon.
2.	Select View all Outlook settings.
3.	Select the Mail category and choose Junk email.
 
" KB0018123 Rutgers URL Shortner (GO) Creating a QR Code "
Any Faculty or Staff member can utilize the Rutgers URL shortener to create simple and short website links, which include statistics on its usage as well as a QR Code for easy access. 
1.	Go to the Rutgers URL shortener.
2.	Click Login with CAS, and authenticate using your NetID and password. 
o	Only Faculty and Staff have access to this tool. Student workers can be whitelisted by a Faculty or Staff member to use this tool for employment-related purposes. 
3.	Once logged in, click Create Link and fill in the required information. 
1.	Under Title enter a name for the website. 
2.	Under Long URL enter the full URL of the website. 
3.	Click Shrink!

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	The link will appear on your dashboard and have a shortened URL formatted similarly to: https://go.rutgers.edu/1234ABCD.
5.	To create a QR code that links to your URL, click on the icon that looks like 4 squares to the left of the trash can icon. 

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	You can then print or download the QR code.
" KB0015901 Rutgers VPN - Enterprise How to use the Virtual Private Network (VPN) "
Rutgers VPN uses the Cisco Secure Mobility Client to provide secure remote access for end users running Windows, macOS, or Linux. The Cisco client is the only officially supported method for VPN connections at the university. 
Installation Instructions
1.	Ensure the VPN service for your account is activated on the Service Activation page.
2.	Download the most up-to-date version of the Cisco Secure Client software for your operating system from the Software Portal. 
3.	Install the Cisco Secure Client the same way as any other software on your computer, which will require administrative credentials for your device.  
o	For Faculty/Staff, if you do not have the administrative rights or privileges on your computer to complete this install, contact your departmental IT for assistance.
The VPN knowledge base has specific OS instructions for:
•	iOS
•	Android
Using the VPN on a computer
1.	Once the installation is complete, the “Cisco Secure Client” will be located in your Start menu, under the Cisco folder. It may also already be running in your system tray. The icon will look like this: 

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Either launch it from your start menu or, if available, double-click the icon in the system tray; you will be presented with the connection screen.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Enter the address of the VPN: vpn.rutgers.edu
4.	Click Connect. 
5.	You will see fields for Username, Password, and Duo Action/Second Password (see below). 

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	The Username will be your NetID, the Password field will be your NetID Password, and for Duo, you have 4 options to enter in the Second Password/Duo Action field: 
o	Enter a 6 digit Duo Passcode. These are generated either by a Hard Token, which shows the passcode in the Duo Mobile App, or by a previous “SMS” request. Simply type in the 6 numbers and hit OK.
o	Type the word “push”. This will send a push notification to the primary device you have enrolled with Duo, with the option to Accept or Deny.
o	Type the word “phone”. You will receive a phone call to the primary device you have enrolled with Duo with touch tone options to Accept or Deny.
o	Type the word “sms”. You will receive a text message on the primary device you enrolled in Duo containing passcodes you can use to log in.
7.	You should now be connected to the VPN.
When you are finished with university business, always remember to end the VPN session.
Ending a VPN Session
To end your session, locate the icon in the system tray on the bottom right of your display. Right-clicking the icon gives you the option to view your session details (Open), end your session (Disconnect), or end your session and close the AnyConnect application (Quit).
Choose Disconnect or Quit when you are ready to terminate the connection based on your preference.
Error! Filename not specified.
If you're having trouble connecting, please contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0015632 Rutgers VPN - Enterprise Virtual Private Network (VPN) FAQ "
Table of Contents
•	How do I register for the VPN?
•	Where can I download the VPN?
•	Is Administrator access required to install the Cisco Secure Client?
•	What is the current Operating System supported for the VPN?
•	Who can use the VPN?
•	When I engage the VPN, I can no longer print on my local network.
•	Is Campus VPN Full Tunnel?
•	I’m connected to VPN, but cannot access department resources.
•	What happens if I receive a pop-up after entering my credentials, like the one below?
•	What are the different VPNs, and what should I be using?
•	Is there anything I should be mindful of while using the VPN?
•	Why can I log into CAS but not VPN?
•	What applications are available without the use of a VPN?
•	Need further assistance?
How do I register for the VPN?
Obtaining a NetID does not automatically enroll you in VPN. You must first register for the VPN service for your NetID. Ensure you have activated the VPN service for your account on the Service Activation page.
Where can I download the VPN?
The latest version of the VPN software for your computer is available on the Software Portal. For mobile devices, it can be found in your device's App Store. 
Is Administrator access required to install the Cisco Secure Client?
Administrator access to your PC or laptop is required to download and install the VPN software. For faculty and staff, contact your departmental IT for assistance with installation, if needed.
What is the current Operating System supported for the VPN?
•	Windows 10 (32 and 64 bit)
•	Linux Red Hat 6 and 7
•	Ubuntu – Please refer to Ubuntu's documentation for currently supported releases
•	MacOS X – Please refer to the vendor for currently supported versions of Mac OS X
•	iOS
•	Android
Who can use the VPN?
Current students, staff, faculty, and university guests are eligible to use the VPN. A student is defined as full-time and currently registered in courses with the university. If you feel you need access and do not fit into any of these categories, you may apply for a guest account.
When I engage the VPN, I can no longer print on my local network.
There is a setting under Preferences that can resolve this issue:
1.	Start the Cisco VPN.
2.	Click the Settings (gear) icon.
3.	From the menu, select Anyconnect VPN > Preferences.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Check the box labeled "Allow local (LAN) access when using VPN."
5.	Your settings changes will not take effect until the next time you start the VPN client.
6.	To test the new settings, quit the VPN client, restart it, and connect again to the VPN.
7.	If that does not work for you, then disconnect from the VPN when you need to print.
Is Campus VPN Full Tunnel?
The Campus VPN is a Full Tunnel.
The “full tunnel” sends all your traffic through the VPN connection, and then out to the Internet through Rutgers’ connection.
This is useful when accessing resources that expect to see your connection coming from Rutgers, such as library journals.
I’m connected to VPN, but cannot access department resources.
If you’ve already connected to the VPN and can’t access a non-general resource, contact your departmental IT. Many departments have been provided with dedicated VPN IP space for areas needing to restrict remote access to their internal administrative environments. This access is controlled by delegated Active Directory RAD groups that local areas manage. Additional firewall access may be necessary to reach your resources. If you’re unable to get the help you need, contact soc@oit.rutgers.edu.
What happens if I receive a pop-up after entering my credentials, like the one below?
Error! Filename not specified.
This means that you are part of a group that provides additional restricted access. Click Accept to complete your connection. If the group does not match your affiliation, send a message to soc@oit.rutgers.edu so it can be investigated.
What are the different VPNs, and what should I be using?
You should make every effort to use vpn.rutgers.edu for the remote access VPN. While other VPN endpoints are available, they may lack address space or licensing to handle the load of users accessing VPN services.
Is there anything I should be mindful of while using the VPN?
Yes. While you are free to perform other activities during your session, VPN is intended for Rutgers University business. Please disconnect from VPN when you’re finished working. Additionally:
•	VPN sessions are capped at 24 hours. A countdown timer will be present in the application. You can always reconnect at any time.
•	VPN is an additional step when connecting to Rutgers’ resources that don’t require it. A list of those items is below.
•	Web browsers or Internet-based apps may need to be restarted after launching or closing the VPN client
Why can I log into CAS but not VPN?
It is possible that your password has expired. Visit the NetID Management page to change your password.
What applications are available without the use of a VPN?
•	Box Storage
•	Canvas Learning Management
•	Linkedin Learning (lynda.com)
•	myRutgers Portal (and the Cornerstone applications accessible inside myRutgers)
•	Scarletmail
•	Rutgers Connect (Office 365)
•	Webex Meetings
•	Qualtrics Survey Tool
Need further assistance?
Contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0015639 Rutgers VPN - Enterprise VPN for Android "
Rutgers VPN uses the Cisco AnyConnect Secure Mobility Client to provide secure remote access for end users running Microsoft Windows, macOS, or Linux. As of February 1, 2026, the Cisco client is the only officially supported method for VPN connections at the University. You will need to enable the VPN prior to using it via the self service activation page.
Installation Instructions
You should install the Cisco Secure Client-AnyConnect app from the Google Play Store, as you would any other Android app. Once the installation is complete, Cisco AnyConnect will be in your launcher’s app tray. It may also already be on your home screen, depending on your settings. 
Using the VPN
1.	Either launch AnyConnect from your home screen or tap the icon from your app tray. You will see the connection screen.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Tap Connections

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Tap Add New VPN Connection 

 Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Tap Server Address

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Enter the address of the VPN: vpn.rutgers.edu and tap OK.
6.	Close the Connection Editor, select Done.
7.	You will now see your newly created connection on the app's main screen, and the app will be in a disconnected state. Tap the slider bar to connect.
8.	You will see fields for Username, Password, and DUO Action/Second Password (see below). The options are detailed in the dialogue box.

Error! Filename not specified.
9.	The Username will be your NetID, the Password will be your NetID Password and for Duo you have 3 options to enter in Second Password: 
o	Enter a 6 digit Duo Passcode. These are generated either by a Hardware Token that displays the passcode in the DUO Mobile App or by a previous “SMS” request. Simply type in the 6 numbers and hit OK.
o	Type the word “push”. This will send a push notification to the primary device you have enrolled with DUO, with the option to Accept or Deny.
o	Type the word “sms”. You will receive a text message to the primary device you have enrolled with DUO, containing passcodes you can use to log in. You may also get a prompt like this:

 Error! Filename not specified.
10.	Tap OK to continue and connect.
11.	You should now be connected to the VPN. You will see the AnyConnect VPN listed as “connected,” and the toggle button will show “On.”
12.	The Android system will also show a notification confirming you are connected.
When you are finished with University business, always remember to end the VPN session.
Ending a VPN Session
To end your session, open the app again to toggle the connection to “Off”. Alternatively, you can tap the Android System notification to disconnect.
If you’re having trouble connecting, please contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0015636 Rutgers VPN - Enterprise VPN for iOS "
VPN connectivity for devices running Apple’s Mobile Operating System (iOS) can be set up by following the steps below.
1.	Search for Cisco Secure Client in the App Store.
2.	Tap Get and enter your Apple ID Password.
3.	Open Cisco AnyConnect.

    Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Tap Connections > Add VPN Connection
5.	Enter RU VPN into the Description.
6.	Enter vpn.rutgers.edu into the Server Address.
7.	Tap Save

    Error! Filename not specified.
8.	If prompted to allow the application to add VPN Connections, choose Allow.

    Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Enter your iPhone passcode.
10.	To enable tap AnyConnect VPN.
11.	When prompted, enter your NetID and NetID Password into Username and Password, respectively.
12.	Enter the DUO authentication method you would like to use in Second Password.
13.	Tap Connect.

     Error! Filename not specified.
14.	After authenticating with DUO you will now be connected. 

    Error! Filename not specified.
 
If you're having trouble connecting, please contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0015638 Rutgers VPN - Enterprise VPN for Linux "
Rutgers offers several methods of establishing Remote Access VPN connectivity on devices running various Linux distributions. The methods described on this page have been tested with Red Hat and Ubuntu. 
Cisco Secure Client for Linux
1.	Ensure the VPN service for your account is activated on the Service Activation page.
2.	Download the most up-to-date version of the Cisco Secure Client software for your operating system from the Software Portal. 
3.	Open the file once the download completes. 
4.	Follow the prompts and Accept the terms to install the software.
5.	The installer requires administrative privileges to run. Sign in with your administrative credentials for your computer to proceed.
6.	Afterwards, the Cisco Secure Client should now be installed on your machine
7.	Follow the instructions for using the VPN. 
OpenConnect Open Source Client
A VPN connection can also be established using the Open Connect Open Source Client. Both the openconnect and networkmanager-openconnect packages are available in the repositories for most Linux distributions.
Installation
Install the OpenConnect package from your distribution’s repositories.
Usage
OpenConnect can be used with NetworkManager, or manually via the command line.
NetworkManager (Optional, but recommended)
Install the network-manger-openconnect package. After installation, restart your computer. Then configure and connect with your desktop environment’s network settings. You will want to use vpn.rutgers.edu for the gateway. Save and connect. It will prompt you for a password twice. For the first prompt, enter your NetID password. For the second prompt, enter one of the following four DUO actions.
1.	Enter a 6 digit duo passcode
2.	Type "push" to send a push
3.	Type "sms" to text new passcodes
Command Line
Run the following command: openconnect vpn.rutgers.edu, and it will prompt you for a password twice. For the first prompt, enter your NetID password. For the second prompt, enter one of the following four Duo actions.
1.	Enter a 6 digit duo passcode
2.	Type "push" to send a push
3.	Type "sms" to text new passcodes
If you're having trouble connecting, please contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0015620 Rutgers VPN - Enterprise VPN for macOS "
Rutgers utilizes the Cisco Secure Client to provide secure remote access VPN functionality. You can access the VPN by installing the Cisco Secure Client. Note that administrative privileges are required to install the VPN software.
Cisco Secure Client
1.	Ensure you have activated the VPN service for your account on the Service Activation page.
2.	Download the most up-to-date version of the Cisco Secure Client software for your operating system from the Software Portal. 
3.	Open the file once the download completes. 
4.	Follow the prompts and Accept the terms to install the software.
5.	The installer requires elevated privileges to run. Enter your mac admin credentials and click Install Software.
6.	Afterwards, the Cisco Secure Client should now be installed on your machine
7.	Follow the instructions on how to use the VPN. 
Native macOS VPN Client
macOS’ native Cisco IPSec VPN client is no longer supported as of July 1, 2019.
Additional Help
If you're having trouble connecting, contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0015634 Rutgers VPN - Enterprise VPN for Windows "
Rutgers utilizes the Cisco Secure Client to provide secure remote access VPN functionality for end users running Microsoft Windows. You can access the VPN by installing the Cisco Secure Client. Note that administrative privileges are required to install the VPN software.
Cisco Secure Client
1.	Ensure you have activated the VPN service for your account on the Service Activation page.
2.	Download the most up-to-date version of the Cisco Secure Client software for your operating system from the Software Portal. 
3.	Open the file once the download completes. 
4.	Follow the prompts and Accept the terms to install the software.
5.	The installer requires administrative privileges to run. Once you click Install, a User Account Control warning appears. Sign in with your administrative credentials for your computer to proceed.
6.	Afterwards, the Cisco Secure Client should now be installed on your machine
7.	Follow the instructions on how to use the VPN. 
Additional Help
For further assistance, contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0018401 Rutgers-Developed Tools How to use Banner Final GradeSync in Canvas "
This page describes how an instructor will use Banner Final GradeSync to send final course grades from Canvas to Banner. Banner GradeSync is not available for REGIS-coded courses. To send final grades to REGIS, view How to use REGIS Final GradeSync. 
Please contact Rutgers Canvas Help if you experience issues using Banner GradeSync. 
Table of Contents
•	Banner Final GradeSync Requirements
•	Canvas Grading Best Practices
•	Instructions for Final GradeSync
•	Part 1: Confirm Grade Scheme Setup in Course Settings 
o	Special Notes
o	Additional Resources
•	Part 2: Finalize Assignment Grading in Gradebook 
o	Additional Resources
•	Part 3: Send Grades to Banner with Banner Final GradeSync
•	Part 4: Review Processed GradeSync Submissions
•	Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) 
o	How do I assign temporary grades in Canvas and send them to Banner?
o	How do I test my grade scheme for rounding?
o	I am getting an error that says I am not logging in with my NetID but I am. What do I do?
o	When I launch Banner Gradesync, how do I resolve the "Request Entity Too Large" error?
o	I can't launch Banner gradeSync. What should I do?
Banner Final GradeSync Requirements
•	The grading period must be open in Banner and active in Banner Final Grade Sync.
•	The Canvas course site must contain at least one section tied to one CRN in Banner.
•	The Canvas course site must have a grading scheme enabled with valid grades accepted by Banner.
•	The Canvas instructor’s NetID is enrolled in the Canvas section within the course site as a Canvas Teacher.
•	The Canvas instructor is assigned the role of instructor or higher for the Banner section.
•	The Canvas instructor has an active faculty or staff role for the current semester.
Canvas Grading Best Practices
•	Before using GradeSync, it is best to grade all student assignments and post all grades. Ideally, there should be no blank or empty spaces in your gradebook. You have not posted all grades if you see an eye with a slash icon. See How do I use the icons and colors in the Gradebook?
•	The letter grade that the instructor sees in the Canvas Grades Total column will be sent to Banner. If the Total column has an eye icon with a slash, the student may see a different letter grade than the instructor. This occurs if there are still unposted grades in the gradebook. Posting all grades ensures there is no confusion for the student.
•	Instructors may prefer to hide totals in students’ grade summaries and hide grade distribution scoring details from students.
•	Instructors may choose to override a student’s final letter grade.
•	Communicate with co-instructors as to who will be sending grades to Banner. 
Instructions for Final GradeSync
Banner Final GradeSync can only be used once to send grades to Banner for a student and will not overwrite grades that exist in Banner.
Before using Banner Final GradeSync, your Canvas site may need additional setup. The instructions for setting up your Canvas Gradebook and using Banner Final GradeSync are split into three parts below.
1.	Confirm Grade Scheme Setup in Course Settings.
2.	Finalize Assignment Grading in Gradebook.
3.	Send Grades to Banner with Final GradeSync.
Part 1: Confirm Grade Scheme Setup in Course Settings
1.	Log into Canvas and navigate to your course.
Error! Filename not specified.
1.	Click Settings to access the Course Details tab.
2.	Locate the Grading Scheme category and then check the box to Enable course grading scheme.
3.	Click +New Grading Scheme to create a new course grading scheme.
4.	In the pop-up window, add a new Grading Scheme Name.
5.	Then, choose Grade by either Percentage or Points; by default, Percentage is chosen.
6.	Adjust the Letter Grade and Range to match your department's recommendations or the grading scale outlined in your course syllabus.
7.	Once you have set a grading scheme, click Save.
Error! Filename not specified.
1.	Select your course grading scheme in the Course Level category from the Grading Scheme drop-down menu.
Error! Filename not specified.
1.	Scroll to the bottom of the Settings page and click Update Course Details.
Special Notes
•	The default grading scheme available in Canvas includes course grades that may not be valid grades accepted by your registrar. Please review your grading scheme carefully to ensure it aligns with school or departmental policy.
•	Each grading scheme needs to be named to be saved.
•	To earn a grade, the student must surpass the grade threshold listed in the grading scheme without rounding. If your course policy allows for rounding, then the grading scheme must reflect a lower threshold for a grade range.
•	Canvas allows you to override the final course grade. Banner Final GradeSync will accept override grades.
•	Temporary and nonstandard grades must appear in the Canvas grading scheme and be assigned in the grade book as an override grade. This includes grades such as I, INC, I/C, I/R, I/S, IU, IP, and IN.
•	Alternatively, you may submit the temporary grades via Banner before using Banner Final GradeSync.
Additional Resources
•	How do I use grading schemes in a course?
•	How do I view and manage grading schemes in a course?
•	How do I enable a grading scheme for a course?
•	How do I add a grading scheme in a course?
Part 2: Finalize Assignment Grading in Gradebook
1.	Log into Canvas and navigate to your course Grades.
2.	Review each column in your gradebook to ensure each student has a grade and the grade has been posted.
1.	When grades are hidden from the student view with a visibility icon, as shown with the eye with a slash icon, the Total column also displays the same icon to indicate that the total grade in the Gradebook differs from the total grade viewed by the student.
2.	Ungraded work will be displayed as a dash or a square icon and will not impact the score in the Total column; thus, ungraded or excused assignments will not be counted against a student’s course grade.
3.	You may use the Set Default Grade function to bulk insert a grade for students without assignment submissions.
4.	Review each column header. The grade for each assignment may be posted to students. Unposted or hidden grades are reported in the displayed course grade in the gradebook for the instructor and are included in the course grade.
5.	To exclude assignments from the final course grade, navigate to the Assignments tool in your course navigation and edit the assignment settings.
Error! Filename not specified.
1.	You may opt to override the final course grade; see the FAQ below. Please note that the override grade must appear in your grading scheme in course Settings to be accepted by Canvas.
Additional Resources
•	How do I use posting policies in a course?
•	How do I select a grade posting policy for a course in the Gradebook?
•	How do I select a grade posting policy for an assignment in the Gradebook?
•	How do I post grades for an assignment in the Gradebook?
•	How do I enter and edit grades in the Gradebook?
•	How do I set a default grade for an assignment in the Gradebook?
•	How do I apply a Missing Submission policy in the Gradebook?
•	How do I apply a Late Submission policy in the Gradebook?
•	How do I override a student’s final grade in the Gradebook?
•	How do I exclude an assignment from the course’s final grades?
•	How do I import grades in the Gradebook?
Part 3: Send Grades to Banner with Banner Final GradeSync
1.	In the course navigation, click RU Faculty Tools. If RU Faculty Tools is not listed, please enable it in the course navigation.
2.	Click Launch GradeSync. 
3.	GradeSync will open in a new tab. 
Error! Filename not specified.
1.	Review the GradeSync Requirements and click Launch Banner Final GradeSync. The Launch Banner Final GradeSync button may be unavailable for the following reasons: 
1.	Instructors are not permitted to use Banner Final GradeSync in your school.
2.	The grading period is not open. 
3.	A Canvas grading scheme is not enabled on your course site. 
Error! Filename not specified.
If you do not meet the minimum user requirements to use GradeSync, you will receive an error message:
Error! Filename not specified.
1.	Review the GradeSync Terms of Use and click I Agree.
Error! Filename not specified.
1.	If you are enrolled in more than 1 section in the Canvas course site, select the section to submit grades in the drop-down menu.
2.	Please review the Final Scores and Final Grades for your students. If there are errors, please correct the Grade Scheme in course settings, or finalize assignment grading and/or override a student’s grade in the Gradebook.
3.	Click Submit Grades.
Note: The Submit Grades button is not available when grades were previously submitted. Click View GradeSync Status to continue.
Error! Filename not specified.
1.	Please review the Banner Gradesync Complete message (A). For each student, you will see a pending icon (B). Click Select next section (C) if you are enrolled in more than one section in your Canvas course site. 

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	In the drop-down menu, Select a section to submit the grade and select your next section. 
3.	Click I Agree.
4.	Please review the Final Scores and Final Grades for your students. If there are errors, please correct the Grade Scheme in course settings, or finalize assignment grading and/or override a student’s grade in the Gradebook. Click Submit Grades. Repeat these steps to submit grades for all sections you are enrolled in. 
Part 4: Review Processed GradeSync Submissions
Banner GradeSync sends grades to Banner once per hour. The Banner Status for each grade is marked with a pending icon when any course instructor returns to the Banner GradeSync page and the grades have been submitted. Once Banner has processed the grades, the Banner Status and Banner Message will be updated for each grade.
1.	Log into Canvas and navigate to your course.
2.	In the course navigation, click RU Faculty Tools. If RU Faculty Tools is not listed, please enable it in the course navigation.
3.	Click Launch GradeSync. 
4.	GradeSync will open in a new tab. 
5.	Click Launch Banner Final GradeSync.
6.	Review the GradeSync Terms of Use and click I Agree.
7.	If you are enrolled in more than 1 section in the Canvas course site, select the section in the drop-down menu.
8.	Click View GradeSync Status to continue. You may also receive an error message for each individual record. Possible Banner Messages are:
•	
o	Submission successful:The grade was successfully transferred to Banner. Log into Banner to view the grade.
o	Student enrollment not valid: The student in the Canvas course is not on the official Banner roster. Contact your school registrar to resolve this issue. 
o	Submission skipped; existing grade present: An existing grade for the enrolled student exists in Banner. 
o	Submitted grade not allowed: The letter grade is not valid. Please check your grading scheme only includes allowed letter grades. 
o	Submission skipped; enrolled section is not valid: The Canvas course includes a section that is not an official Banner course. Contact your school registrar and the Rutgers Canvas Help Desk to resolve this issue. 
o	Submission skipped; enrolled section is not gradable: The section in Banner is not gradable. 
o	Submission skipped; submitter not instructor of record: Contact your school registrar to be listed as a course instructor or ask another course instructor to submit the grades.
o	Submission skipped; Banner enrollment not valid: The student in the Canvas course is not on the official Banner roster. Contact your school registrar to resolve this issue. 
o	Submission skipped; Banner enrollment not gradable: The enrolled student in Banner is not gradable. 
o	Submission skipped; final grade generated from component marks: The course final grade is automatically calculated from assessment grades submitted to Banner.
Error! Filename not specified.
Final grades transferred to Banner will have a success icon and message (A) If a submission was skipped, grades may be resubmitted if the grade was submitted by a course instructor who is not the instructor of record (B) or due to an invalid grade (C). You may re-submit the whole roster (D). Only grades that were skipped will be sent to Banner upon resubmission. Grades that were previously sent to Banner will not be updated.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
How do I assign temporary grades in Canvas and send them to Banner?
To be accepted as a valid grade in the Canvas gradebook, temporary grades must appear in the Canvas grading scheme. Ideally, you will set the temporary grades as the lowest possible points earned to avoid erroneously assigning them to other students. This grading scheme should be set after you have completed all your assignment grades at the end of the term.
1.	Ensure that your Grade Scheme Setup includes temporary grades.
Error! Filename not specified.
1.	In course Settings, click the Feature Options tab.
Error! Filename not specified.
1.	Click to enable Final Grade Override.
Error! Filename not specified.
1.	In your course navigation, click Grades.
2.	Click the gear icon to access the grades settings.
Error! Filename not specified.
1.	Click Advanced.
2.	Check the box to Allow final grade override.
Error! Filename not specified.
1.	Click Apply Settings.
2.	In the Override column, enter your temporary grades.
Error! Filename not specified.
1.	Review other grades in your gradebook. Temporary grades may have been automatically assigned. Override the grade with the correct letter grade.
Additional Resources
•	How do I use grading schemes in a course?
•	How do I enable a grading scheme for a course?
•	How do I add a grading scheme in a course?
•	How do I override a student’s final grade in the Gradebook?
How do I test my grade scheme for rounding?
To earn a grade, the student must surpass the grade threshold listed in the Grading Scheme without rounding. If your course policy allows for rounding, then the grading scheme must reflect a lower threshold for a grade range.
>
1.	Set your grading scheme in your course settings. In the video above, the grading scheme is set with ranges that are whole numbers (e.g., 94.0, 87.0).
2.	View your course in Student View to create a Test Student in your grade book.
3.	Assign grades for all assignments for Test Student either manually or import. To import grades in bulk 
1.	Click Actions.
2.	Click Export in the dropdown menu.
3.	Locate the downloaded CSV file and open it.
4.	In your spreadsheet program, fill in grades for Test Student by copying grades from another student. Do not enter grades for columns marked Read Only.
5.	Save your file.
6.	In your gradebook, click Actions.
7.	In the dropdown menu, click Import.
8.	Click Choose file and navigate to the spreadsheet you just saved.
9.	Click Upload Data and confirm grade changes.
10.	Click Save Changes.
4.	Manually edit grades for the Test Student so that the grade total is just below your grade cut off with a value of more than five-tenths of a point. In the example, the Test Student's final grade was adjusted to 86.8%.
5.	Reset your course grading scheme in course settings to be half a point lower. For example, 94% becomes 93.5%.
6.	View the new Grade Total for the Test Student.
I am getting an error that says I am not logging in with my NetID but I am. What do I do?
This error commonly occurs when an instructor first accesses Rutgers Canvas with an email login, and then a NetID login is added to their Rutgers Canvas user account.
The email login must be removed from the user’s profile to use Banner Final GradeSync. Please contact the Rutgers Canvas Helpdesk with the error message and ask that your email login be removed from your user account.
When I launch Banner Gradesync, how do I resolve the "Request Entity Too Large" error?
Error! Filename not specified.
Some users will receive an error stating that the "Request Entity Too Large." This error is related to your browser's cookies. You may clear all cache and cookies or selectively delete cookies for "lms.rutgers.edu." After you have removed your cookies, you must close your browser. You may relaunch Banner GradeSync. Contact the Rutgers Canvas Help Desk for further assistance.
See:
•	Delete, allow, and manage cookies in Chrome
•	Clear cookies and site data in Firefox
I can't launch Banner GradeSync. What should I do?
If you were notified that the grading period is open for your school and your Canvas course site has a grading scheme enabled, then you may need to delete your browser's cookies. If you prefer, you may follow these steps to delete selected cookies for Banner GradeSync. 
For Google Chrome:
1.	Go to your Chrome Settings by clicking the 3 dots (A) in the upper right, then click Settings (B).

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click Privacy and Security.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click Third-Party Cookies.
4.	Click See all site data and permissions.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	In the search field, type lms.rutgers.edu to filter the list of cookies.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Click the ? to expand the list of cookies associated with rutgers.edu.
7.	Click on the trash can icon to the right of lms.rutgers.edu.
8.	Click Delete. 
9.	Close and restart your browser.
" KB0016362 Rutgers-Developed Tools How to use REGIS Final GradeSync "
This page describes how an instructor will use REGIS Final GradeSync to send final course grades from Canvas to REGIS. REGIS GradeSync is not available for Rutgers Health or Banner courses.
Instructors looking to submit warning grades can use Warning GradeSync.
Table of Contents
•	REGIS Final GradeSync Requirements
•	Canvas Grading Best Practices
•	Instructions for Final GradeSync
•	Part 1: Confirm Grade Scheme Setup in Course Settings 
o	Special Notes
o	Additional Resources
•	Part 2: Finalize Assignment Grading in Gradebook 
o	Additional Resources
•	Part 3: Send Grades to REGIS with Final GradeSync
•	Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) 
o	How do I assign temporary grades in Canvas and send them to REGIS?
o	How do I test my grade scheme for rounding?
o	I have two course sites, one for lecture and one for recitation/lab. Can I use REGIS GradeSync in both?
o	I am getting an error that says I am not logging in with my NetID but I am. What do I do?
REGIS Final GradeSync Requirements
•	The grading period must be open in REGIS.
•	The Canvas course site must contain at least one section tied to one REGINDEX in REGIS.
•	The Canvas course site must have a grading scheme enabled with valid grades accepted by REGIS.
•	The Canvas instructor’s NetID is enrolled in the Canvas section within the course site as a Canvas Teacher, TA, Facilitator, Course Support.
•	The Canvas instructor is assigned the role of Grader or higher for the REGIS section.
•	The Canvas instructor has an active faculty or staff role for the current semester.
Canvas Grading Best Practices
•	Before using GradeSync, it is best to grade all assignments for all students and post all grades. There should be no blank or empty spaces in your gradebook. If you see an eye with a slash icon, you have not posted all grades. See How do I use the icons and colors in the Gradebook?
•	The letter grade that the instructor sees in the Canvas Grades Total column will be sent to REGIS. If the Total column has an eye icon with a slash, the student may see a different letter grade than the instructor. This occurs if there are still unposted grades in the gradebook. Posting all grades ensures there is no confusion for the student.
•	Instructors may prefer to hide totals in students’ grade summaries and hide grade distribution scoring details from students.
•	Instructors may choose to override a student’s final letter grade.
•	Communicate with co-instructors as to who will be sending grades to REGIS. There will be no indicator that grades have been sent to REGIS by another instructor.
Instructions for Final GradeSync
Final GradeSync can only be used once to send grades to REGIS and will not overwrite grades that were already entered.
Before using Final GradeSync, your Canvas site may need additional setup. The instructions for setting up your Canvas Gradebook and using Final GradeSync are split into three parts below.
1.	Confirm Grade Scheme Setup in Course Settings.
2.	Finalize Assignment Grading in Gradebook.
3.	Send Grades to REGIS with Final GradeSync.
Part 1: Confirm Grade Scheme Setup in Course Settings
1.	Log in to Canvas and navigate to your course.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click Settings to access the Course Details tab.
3.	Locate the Grading Scheme category and then check the box to Enable course grading scheme.
4.	Click +New Grading Scheme to create a new course grading scheme.
5.	In the pop-up window, add a new Grading Scheme Name, 
6.	Then, choose Grade by either Percentage or Points; by default, Percentage is chosen.
7.	Adjust the Letter Grade and Range to match your department's recommendations or the grading scale set forth in your course syllabus.
8.	Once you have set a grading scheme, click Save.

Error! Filename not specified.
9.	From the Grading Scheme drop-down menu, select your Course Grading Scheme in the Course Level Category.

Error! Filename not specified.
10.	Scroll to the bottom of the Settings page and click Update Course Details.
Special Notes
•	The default grading scheme available in Canvas includes course grades that may not be valid grades accepted by your registrar. Please review your grading scheme carefully and ensure that it aligns with school or departmental policy.
•	Each Grading Scheme needs to be named in order to be saved.
•	To earn a grade, the student must surpass the grade threshold listed in the Grading Scheme without rounding.  If your course policy allows for rounding, then the grading scheme must reflect a lower threshold for a grade range.
•	Canvas allows you to override the final course grade. REGIS GradeSync will accept override grades.
•	Temporary and nonstandard grades must appear in the Canvas grading scheme to be assigned in the gradebook as an override grade. This includes grades such as H, NC, PA, S, TB, TB+, TC, TC+, TD, TF, TNC, TT, TZ, and U.
•	Alternatively, you may submit the temporary grades via REGIS first before using REGIS Final GradeSync.
Additional Resources
•	How do I use grading schemes in a course?
•	How do I view grading schemes in a course?
•	How do I enable a grading scheme for a course?
•	How do I add a grading scheme in a course?
Part 2: Finalize Assignment Grading in Gradebook
1.	Log in to Canvas and navigate to your course.
2.	Review each column in your gradebook to ensure each student has a grade and the grade has been posted. 
1.	When grades are hidden from student view, as shown with the eye with a slash icon, the Total column also displays the same icon to indicate that the total grade in the Gradebook differs from the total grade viewed by the student.
2.	Ungraded work will be displayed as a dash or a square icon and will not impact the score in the Total column; thus, ungraded or excused assignments will not be counted against a student’s course grade.
3.	You may use the Set Default Grade function to bulk insert a grade for students without assignment submissions.
4.	Review each column header. The grade for each assignment may be posted to students. Unposted grades are reported in the displayed course grade in the gradebook for the instructor and are included in the course grade.
5.	To exclude assignments from the final course grade, navigate to the Assignments tool in your course navigation and edit the assignment settings.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	You may opt to override the final course grade; see the FAQ below. Please note that the override grade must appear in your grading scheme in Course Settings to be accepted by Canvas.
Additional Resources
•	How do I use posting policies in a course?
•	How do I select a grade posting policy for a course in the Gradebook?
•	How do I select a grade posting policy for an assignment in the Gradebook?
•	How do I post grades for an assignment in the Gradebook?
•	How do I enter and edit grades in the Gradebook?
•	How do I set a default grade for an assignment in the Gradebook?
•	How do I apply a Missing Submission policy in the Gradebook?
•	How do I apply a Late Submission policy in the Gradebook?
•	How do I override a student’s final grade in the Gradebook?
•	How do I exclude an assignment from the course’s final grades?
•	How do I import grades in the Gradebook?
Part 3: Send Grades to REGIS with Final GradeSync
1.	In the course navigation, click RU Faculty Tools. If RU Faculty Tools is not listed, please enable it in the course navigation.
2.	Click Launch REGIS Final GradeSync.
3.	REGIS Final GradeSync will open in a new tab.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Review the GradeSync requirements and click Launch Final GradeSync.
5.	Review the GradeSync Terms of Use and click I Agree. If you do not meet the minimum user requirements to use GradeSync, you will receive an error message:

Error! Filename not specified.
o	[RESP CODE 400] Invalid grade – Your grading scheme in Canvas includes letter grades that are not accepted by REGIS. Log into REGIS to manually enter a grade.
o	[RESP CODE 401] You are not an assigned REGIS Grader for this section – You do not have REGIS access to post grades for this section. Ask your academic unit for access.
o	[RESP CODE 403] You must have a REGIS Grader role for this section – You do not have REGIS access to post grades for this section. Ask your academic unit for access.
o	[RESP CODE 409] No grades may be posted during a closed Warning or Grading Period – The grading period is not open. Refer to Grading Period dates in REGIS.
o	[RESP CODE 500] REGIS Internal server error for the section [{0}]’s grade submission – Retry your submission.
6.	Please review the Final Scores and Final Grades for your students. If there are errors, please correct the Grade Scheme in course settings, or finalize assignment grading and/or override a student’s grade in the Gradebook.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	In the drop-down menu, select to submit grades for All Sections or choose one section.

Error! Filename not specified.
8.	Click Submit Grades.

Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Please review the REGIS Status message.

Error! Filename not specified.

You may also receive an error message for each individual record. If a grade was skipped, please correct the error. You may resubmit the roster. Only grades that were skipped will be sent to REGIS upon resubmission. Grades that were previously sent to REGIS will not be updated.

Error! Filename not specified.
10.	Log in to REGIS to verify grade submissions, resolve any issues, and make changes.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
How do I assign temporary grades in Canvas and send them to REGIS?
To be accepted as a valid grade in the Canvas gradebook, temporary grades must appear in the Canvas grading scheme. Ideally, you will set the temporary grades as the lowest possible range to avoid assigning them to other students erroneously. This grading scheme should be set after you have completed all your assignment grades at the end of the term.
1.	Ensure that your Grade Scheme Setup includes temporary grades.
2.	In the course Settings, click the Feature Options tab.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click to enable Final Grade Override.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	In your course navigation, click Grades.
5.	Click the gear icon to access the grades settings.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Click Advanced.
7.	Check the box to Allow final grade override.

Error! Filename not specified.
8.	Click Update.
9.	In the Override column, enter your temporary grades.

Error! Filename not specified.
10.	Review other grades in your gradebook. Temporary grades may have been automatically assigned. Override the grade with the correct letter grade.
Additional Resources
•	How do I use grading schemes in a course?
•	How do I enable a grading scheme for a course?
•	How do I add a grading scheme in a course?
•	How do I override a student’s final grade in the Gradebook?
How do I test my grade scheme for rounding?
To earn a grade, the student must surpass the grade threshold listed in the Grading Scheme without rounding. If your course policy allows for rounding, then the grading scheme must reflect a lower threshold for a grade range.

1.	Set your grading scheme in your course settings. In the video above, the grading scheme is set with ranges that are whole numbers (e.g., 94.0, 87.0).
2.	View your course in Student View to create a Test Student in your gradebook
3.	Assign grades for all assignments for Test Student either manually or by importing. To import grades in bulk 
1.	Click Actions.
2.	Click Export in the dropdown menu.
3.	Locate the downloaded CSV file and open it.
4.	In your spreadsheet program, fill in grades for Test Student by copying grades from another student. Do not enter grades for columns marked Read Only.
5.	Save your file.
6.	In your gradebook, click Actions.
7.	In the dropdown menu, click Import.
8.	Click Choose file and navigate to the spreadsheet you just saved.
9.	Click Upload Data and confirm grade changes.
10.	Click Save Changes.
4.	Manually edit grades for the Test Student so that the grade total is just below your grade cut off with a value of more than five-tenths of a point. In the example, the Test Student's final grade was adjusted to 86.8%
5.	Reset your course grading scheme in course settings to be half a point lower. For example, 94% becomes 93.5%.
6.	View the new Grade Total for the Test Student.
I have two course sites, one for lecture and one for recitation/lab. Can I use REGIS GradeSync in both?
Grades can only be submitted for sections linked to REGIS.
If you have two sites for the same course number, you will need to identify which site includes the sections linked to REGIS. To identify the correct site, review the format of the Section ID.
1.	In Course Navigation, click Settings.
2.	Click the Sections tab.

Error! Filename not specified.
The Correct Format will be YearTerm_CourseCode_RegIndex
•	Example: 20201_01-830-101-01_04229

Error! Filename not specified.
All other formats will not be compatible with GradeSync.
I am getting an error that says I am not logging in with my NetID but I am. What do I do?
This error commonly occurs when an instructor first accesses Rutgers Canvas with an email login and then a NetID login is added to their Rutgers Canvas user account.
The email login must be removed from the user’s profile to use REGIS GradeSync. Please contact the Rutgers Canvas Helpdesk with the error message and ask that your email login be removed from your user account.
" KB0016353 Rutgers-Developed Tools Mirror Sites – Instructor Guide "
This page describes how an instructor will use Mirror Sites in Rutgers Canvas to create a new blank course site and mirror the student roster for active sections.
Table of Contents
•	Important Information before using Mirror Sites
•	Requesting a Mirror Site 
o	Part 1: Launch Mirror Sites in the RU Faculty Tools
o	Part 2: Select Sections to Request Mirror Sites
o	Part 3: Mirror Site Confirmation Page
o	Part 4: Review Mirror Site Course Settings
•	Frequently Asked Questions 
o	When do the students get updated in the Mirror Sites?
o	Why am I getting an error when opening Mirror Sites?
o	Why are only some of the sections listed on the Mirror Site request page?
o	How do I transfer the grades on my Mirror Site to Rutgers?
Important Information before using Mirror Sites
•	Mirror Sites are only available for active Rutgers Course offerings. This tool cannot be used with Rutgers Health BANNER courses or with any manually created sections.
•	Mirror Sites cannot use the Canvas GradeSync tool. Make sure to keep final grades in the original site if you plan to use Canvas REGIS Gradesync.
•	Mirror Sites cannot use First Day Course Materials. First Day content must be shared on the original course site to take advantage of the discount course materials program.
•	You must be enrolled in the section as a teacher, TA, Facilitator, Course Support, or other editing role. If you are a sub-account admin, you must first add your non-admin netid into the section with one of the specified roles; your netid-adm account will not work. 
•	Only one Mirror Site may be created per section. If another course instructor has already requested a Mirror Site for a section, their NetID and request date will be listed on the request page.
Requesting a Mirror Site
Part 1: Launch Mirror Sites in the RU Faculty Tools
You must have an active NetID and be enrolled in this course with an editing role to use the Mirror Site tool.
1.	In Course Navigation, click RU Faculty Tools. If RU Faculty Tools is not listed, please enable it in the course navigation.
2.	Click Launch Mirror Sites.
3.	The tool will open in a new tab.

Error! Filename not specified.
Part 2: Select Sections to Request Mirror Sites
On the Mirror Site landing page, there will be an overview of the tool and the list of active sections pulled from the course. If the course has multiple sections or is cross-listed, each section will be displayed in a separate row. 
1.	Check the box for each section where a Mirror Site is needed and click Create Mirror Sites to submit the request.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	If the Request Status says “In Use”, then the Mirror Site already exists. Additional information about the previous request will be displayed in the table. 

Error! Filename not specified.
Part 3: Mirror Site Confirmation Page
When the request is completed, a confirmation page will provide links to each Mirror Site. You can go to the site by clicking on the Mirror Course Title or by finding Mirror Sites listed on your Canvas Courses page. 
Each selected section will create a separate Mirror Site. If you need to merge multiple Mirror Sites into 1 course site, please use the Canvas Cross-Listing Feature.
Error! Filename not specified.
Part 4: Review Mirror Site Course Settings
Mirror Sites are created in the same term and Canvas sub-account as the original site. Edit additional course settings to improve the student experience.
1.	The Course Name is displayed on the Dashboard. It is recommended to change the name so users can differentiate the Mirror Site from the original site.
2.	The Course Code is displayed at the top of the page in the course as a breadcrumb. It is recommended to change the course code so users can identify that they are currently viewing the Mirror Site.
3.	The Start and End dates are set to the term dates as the original course. To allow early access or immediate access, these dates need to be updated. See additional instructions on how to set earlier access.
4.	All sites are unpublished by default. After reviewing the start/end dates, publish the site to allow student access.

Error! Filename not specified.
Frequently Asked Questions
When do the students get updated in the Mirror Sites?
After a Mirror Site is requested, the requester is added immediately. The student roster will be added in the next student enrollment update. Additional information about students updating in Canvas can be found on the Canvas Provisioning page.
Why am I getting an error when I click on Launch Mirror Sites?
There are user and course requirements for the Mirror Sites creation app to work properly. If any of these requirements are not met, it may return a specific error message to you.
User Requirements:
•	Currently an active faculty or staff member at Rutgers.
•	Logging into Canvas with a Rutgers NetID. Email accounts will not work.
•	Enrolled in the Canvas section as a teacher, TA, Facilitator, Course Support, or other editing role.
Course Requirements:
•	Requesting a current or future term. Past terms are disabled and will not update the roster.
•	The Canvas section is associated with an active REGIS registration index number. This tool cannot be used with a Rutgers Health BANNER course.
If you receive any error messages, please send your course information and the error to help@canvas.rutgers.edu.
Why are only some of the sections listed on the Mirror Site request page?
Mirror Sites are only available for active Rutgers course offerings. This tool cannot be used with Rutgers Health BANNER courses or with manually created sections. If you created your own section, it will not have the required unique ID to pull the roster from the Rutgers Course Scheduling System.
If you believe your sections should be listed, please send your course information to help@canvas.rutgers.edu.
How do I transfer the grades from my Mirror Site to Rutgers REGIS?
Mirror Sites cannot use the Canvas GradeSync. Grades will need to be submitted from the original course site after it is finalized.
To copy the grades from the Mirror Site, it is recommended to create assignment columns for non-submission assignments in the Gradebook as a placeholder in the original course site. If you need assistance with copying the grades, please email help@canvas.rutgers.edu.
" KB0019328 Rutgers-Developed Tools Post'em – Getting Started for Instructors "
Instructors can use Rutgers Post'em to privately present individual feedback and/or grades to students. Multiple files can be shared with course students; each file may have as many data columns as needed. This tool does not communicate with the Canvas gradebook.
Table of Contents
•	Requirements
•	Create your Spreadsheet 
o	Special Characters
o	Course Roster Sync and Rutgers Post'em
•	Upload your Spreadsheet
•	What do my Students See?
•	How do I manage my worksheets?
Requirements
To share files with students, instructors must have a teacher, teacher-based, TA, or TA-based course role. Custom roles based on teacher and TA roles will have editor access in Post'em. With these roles, users can upload, publish, unpublish, download, delete, and update files.
•	Designer and observer roles will have student access in Post'em and can only view data if their login ID is included in the worksheet.
•	The uploaded file must be a comma-separated value (.csv) file type.
•	The first column must include the students' login IDs in lowercase. This value may be in the form of a Rutgers NetID or an email address for users who are not affiliated with Rutgers.
•	The worksheet cannot include any blank rows between rows with data.
•	The first row must include a heading for every column that contains data in your worksheet.
•	The worksheet must contain at least two columns and two rows.
Create your Spreadsheet
Course instructors must create a spreadsheet using the students' login IDs. This is obtained from a Grades export.
1.	Log in to Canvas and navigate to your course.
2.	Click Grades.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	In the Actions menu, select Export Entire Gradebook. 
4.	Please note whether the Canvas Test Student is listed.
5.	Click the downloaded file, or navigate to your downloads to open it.
6.	Highlight and copy the values in the SIS Login ID column for all your students. Do not include the column heading.

     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Do not select the SIS Login ID for the Canvas Test Student created by using Student View.
8.	In your spreadsheet program, create a new worksheet.

     Error! Filename not specified.
9.	In the first column, add the login id as a column heading.
10.	Paste your student SIS Login IDs in the row below the login ID column heading.
11.	Add column headings in the first row and corresponding student-specific information to your spreadsheet. You may copy the student names from the gradebook export for your clarity when you view the entire worksheet in Rutgers Post'em. Rutgers Post'em will display each student's name.
12.	Save your file as a comma-separated values (CSV) file.
Special Characters
Post'em is compatible with alphanumeric characters, including 0-9 and a-z, and most punctuation, including ! " # $ % & ' ( ) * + , - / : ; < = > ? @ [ ] ^ _ { | } ~. Post'em does not display the backslash "\" or other ASCII characters, such as Greek symbols and accented characters. In other words, Rutgers Post'em will display printable ASCII characters 1-126, except 92, and not display ASCII characters 127-255.
Course Roster Sync and Rutgers Post'em
Since worksheets are created manually, course instructors need to monitor course rosters to add newly enrolled students to the worksheets. If a student's login ID is not included in a worksheet, the worksheet will not be displayed to the student. If information is included for a student who has dropped the course, the following error message is displayed: "The following user(s) are not in this course: [login ID]. Data for these users will be discarded."
Upload your Spreadsheet
Before uploading a file to Rutgers Post’em, please close other Canvas browsers and tabs to ensure your file is uploaded to the correct course.
1.	Click Rutgers Post’em in your course navigation. If it is not listed, enable it by managing the course navigation links in course Settings.
2.	Click +CSV to add a new CSV file.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Enter a title for the file.
4.	Click Select a CSV file and browse to your file location.
5.	To save your file and advance to the Preview screen, click Submit. To cancel and return to the main Post’em screen, click Cancel.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	On the Preview screen, you will see a sample of how the file will appear to your students. The column headers, Item Name and Item Detail, are not editable. You may do one of the following:
1.	Save will save the file without publishing it, so it is available only to teachers and TAs. You will return to the main Post’em page that lists all worksheets. 
2.	Save & Publish saves the file and makes it available to students immediately. You will return to the main Post’em page that lists all worksheets.
3.	Back to Upload will remove the uploaded file and let you select a different one.
4.	Cancel will not save your work and return you to the main Post’em page.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	From the main Post’em page that lists all worksheets, click to expand the Actions menu. The options are:
1.	Publish/Unpublish to change availability to students.
2.	Edit to change the entry title and to replace the existing worksheet.
3.	Delete to remove the worksheet entry. Once a worksheet is published to students, it cannot be deleted; it can only be unpublished, so it remains part of the course record.
4.	View Worksheet to view the worksheet as an individual student or in its entirety.
5.	Download Worksheet to download a copy of the existing worksheet.

Error! Filename not specified.
What do my Students See?
When a student accesses Rutgers Post’em in your course navigation, they will see a list of worksheets you have published (1). They will not see the full list of worksheets, including published (2) and unpublished (3) worksheets available within the instructor view. 
     Error! Filename not specified.
     Error! Filename not specified.
When a student clicks to view a published worksheet, they will see their name (A) and each column heading (B) as Item Name, with the student's data listed as Item Detail (C). The student may return to the list of worksheets by clicking Return to List (D).
     Error! Filename not specified.
How do I manage my worksheets?
In Rutgers Post'em, instructors can use the following features to manage their list of worksheets:
1.	Hide Unpublished Worksheets: Worksheets with the Unpublished status may be hidden from view when this checkbox is enabled. 
2.	Show entries per page: Set the number of worksheets per page by selecting the desired value. When the number of worksheets exceeds the selected limit, pagination appears below the worksheet list. 
3.	Column Sorting: Instructors can sort worksheets in ascending or descending order by worksheet name, last updated, or publication status. 
4.	Actions Menu:
o	Publish/Unpublish to change availability to students.
o	Edit to change the entry title and to replace the existing worksheet.
o	Delete to remove the worksheet entry. Once a worksheet is published to students, it cannot be deleted; it can only be unpublished, so it remains part of the course record.
o	View Worksheet to view the worksheet as an individual student or in its entirety.
o	Download Worksheet to download a copy of the existing worksheet.
     Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0019327 Rutgers-Developed Tools Post'em – Getting Started for Students "
Your course instructor has directed you to view grades, feedback, assignment details, or other student-specific information in Rutgers Post’em. Post’em is a method for instructors to share information confidential to you. In Post’em, the information will be displayed as a table.
To View a Worksheet in Rutgers Post’em
1.	Log in to Canvas and navigate to your course.
2.	Click Rutgers Post’em in the course navigation.
3.	A list of published worksheets will be displayed. Click on a worksheet title.
     Error! Filename not specified.
1.	On the Worksheet details page, you will see your name (A), Item Name (B), and Item Details (C). To return to the list of worksheets, click Return to List (D).
     Error! Filename not specified.
FAQ
When I click Rutgers Post'em, I am missing a worksheet that the instructor said was published. What do I do?
Please reach out to your instructor and provide a screenshot of what you see. It is likely you were not included in the worksheet you are missing.
" KB0016287 Rutgers-Developed Tools REGIS Warning GradeSync "
This page describes how an instructor will use REGIS Warning GradeSync to send warning grades and comments from Canvas to REGIS.
REGIS Warning GradeSync is not available for Camden, Newark, Rutgers Health, or Banner courses. Contact your department for information on how to submit Warning Grades.
Table of Contents
•	REGIS Warning GradeSync Requirements
•	Warning GradeSync
•	Instructions for Warning GradeSync
•	Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) 
o	Where can I find the Warning Grading Period Dates?
o	Where can I find more information about Warning Grades?
o	I have two course sites, one for lecture and one for recitation/lab. Can I use REGIS GradeSync in both?
o	I am getting an error that says I am not logging in with my NetID but I am. What do I do?
REGIS Warning GradeSync Requirements
•	The Warning Period is open in REGIS.
•	The Canvas course site contains at least one section tied to one REGINDEX in REGIS.
•	The Canvas instructor’s NetID is enrolled in the Canvas site as a Canvas Teacher, TA, Facilitator, or Course Support.
•	The Canvas instructor is assigned a role of Grader or higher in REGIS for that section.
•	The Canvas instructor has an active faculty or staff role for the current semester.
Note: Warning grades can be submitted and changed during the open warning period. If a different warning grade is resubmitted, it will overwrite the existing warning grade in REGIS.
REGIS Warning GradeSync is not available for Camden and Newark. If you have not used REGIS to submit warning grades in the past, please confirm with your department before using the Canvas Warning GradeSync tool.
Instructions for REGIS Warning GradeSync
1.	In the course navigation, click RU Faculty Tools. If RU Faculty Tools is not listed, please enable it in the course navigation.
2.	Click Launch GradeSync.
3.	Rutgers GradeSync will open in a new tab.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Review the GradeSync Requirements and click Launch Warning GradeSync on the selection page to proceed to the roster.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Review the GradeSync Terms of Use and click I Agree.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Enter the Warning Codes and Comments for your students.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Click Submit Warning Grades.
8.	On the submission page, you will see a message indicating that the Warning Grades were successfully submitted, along with the status of each student.

Error! Filename not specified.

If you do not meet the minimum user requirements to use GradeSync, you will receive an error message. 
o	[RESP CODE 401] You are not an assigned REGIS Grader for this section – You do not have REGIS access to post grades for this section. Ask your academic unit for access.
o	[RESP CODE 403] You must have a REGIS Grader role for this section – You do not have REGIS access to post grades for this section. Ask your academic unit for access.
o	[RESP CODE 409] No grades may be posted during a closed Warning or Grading Period – The grading period is not open. Refer to grading period dates in REGIS.
o	[RESP CODE 500] REGIS Internal server error for the section [{0}]’s grade submission – Retry your submission.
9.	During the open warning period, warning grades can be submitted multiple times. If a warning grade is changed and resubmitted, it will overwrite the existing warning grade in REGIS.
10.	You may Return to Warning Grades or log into REGIS directly to verify grade submissions, resolve any issues, and make changes.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
Where can I find the Warning Grading Period Dates?
REGIS will accept Warning Grades only during active grading periods. Any submissions outside of these dates will not be accepted.
To find these dates, go to the Electronic Student Grading System website and select Rosters & Electronic Grading Information System (REGIS).
On your section's roster page, you will see the dates for both Warning and Grading periods.
Where can I find more information about Warning Grades?
Each campus may have its own policy and requirements. Review their documentation below before contacting your Registrar's office.
Camden: Office of Registrar – Grade Instruction
Newark: MyRUN – Warning Grades
New Brunswick: Registrar – Submission of Warnings and Grades
I have two course sites, one for lecture and one for recitation/lab. Can I use REGIS GradeSync in both?
Grades can only be submitted for sections linked to REGIS.
If you have two sites for the same course number, you will need to identify which site includes the REGIS-linked sections. To identify the correct site, review the format of the Sections ID.
1.	In Course Navigation, click Settings.
2.	Click the Sections tab.

Error! Filename not specified.
o	The Correct Format will be YearTerm_CourseCode_RegIndex
o	Example: 20201_01-830-101-01_04229
o	All other formats will not be compatible with GradeSync. This includes Section ID's ending in 'copy' or 'mirror'. 
 
Error! Filename not specified.
I am getting an error that says I am not logging in with my NetID, but I am. What do I do?
This error commonly occurs when an instructor first accesses Rutgers Canvas with an email login and then a NetID login is added to their Rutgers Canvas user account.
The email login must be removed from the user’s profile to use REGIS GradeSync. Please contact the Rutgers Canvas Helpdesk with the error message and ask that your email login be removed from your user account.
" KB0016599 Rutgers-Developed Tools RU Faculty Tools in Canvas – Rutgers Photo Roster "
Rutgers Photo Roster, available as an application in RU Faculty Tools, provides a quick way for instructors to access photos of their enrolled students. With Rutgers Photo Roster, instructors may view student ID photos, first and last names, Rutgers ID numbers, Rutgers NetIDs, and/or Banner A-Numbers. Rutgers Photo Roster is compatible with REGIS-coded and Banner-coded courses, as well as Mirror sites. Photos are available for Rutgers-affiliated faculty, staff, and students.
The Rutgers Photo Roster is available for course editing roles through RU Faculty Tools. If it is not listed, please enable it in the course navigation.
Access Rutgers Photo Roster
1.	In the course navigation, click RU Faculty Tools. If RU Faculty Tools is not listed, please enable it in the course navigation.
2.	Click Launch Rutgers Photo Roster.
3.	Rutgers Photo Roster will open in a new tab.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Review the Photo Roster Terms of Use and note about student email addresses, and click I Agree.

    Error! Filename not specified.
5.	To view photos: Click on the name of your section to view photos (5). If your course site has more than one section associated with it, click Close Roster (6). Click on the name of other sections to expand (7).

     Error! Filename not specified.
 
Print Rutgers Photo Roster
1.	Use one of the following methods to access your browser's print function: 
1.	Click File > Print.
2.	Use a keyboard shortcut: 
	Windows & Linux: Ctrl + p.
	Mac: ? + p
3.	Right-click in the browser to access the context menu.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	In the window that appears, select the printer destination.
3.	Click More settings to change any print settings and ensure the photos are properly placed on the page preview.

    Error! Filename not specified.

Adjust the scale and margins to ensure all photos and student data are properly placed on the page preview.

     Error! Filename not specified.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click Print.
" KB0016600 Rutgers-Developed Tools Rutgers Crosslist Courses Tool "
The Crosslist Courses tool in Canvas was added by Rutgers OIT to provide faculty and staff with an easier way to combine enrollments from multiple sections into a single course site.
Understanding the differences between Courses and Sections in Canvas will be helpful before using this tool.
Requirements for using the Crosslist Courses tool
•	The person cross-listing needs to be enrolled in each section as a teacher, TA, Facilitator, Course Support, or other editing role.
•	The course site is listed under an academic or non-credit term. Templates and other non-academic sites will not be available for selection.
Additional Use Guidelines
•	Always cross-list before students submit work. Assignment submissions are retained with the course, not with the section enrollments. If you cross-list after students have already submitted work, all cross-listed enrollments will lose any associated assignment submissions and grades.
•	Once a section is cross-listed, the original Canvas site associated with the section is no longer accessible. If the user would like to re-crosslist or de-crosslist, they will need to contact the Canvas Help Desk.
•	Sub-account admins cannot use this tool on behalf of another user. Sub-account admins will need to be added to the section with a course editing role.
Where to find the Crosslist Courses tool
1.	In Global Navigation, click the Courses link.
2.	Then click the All Courses link.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	On the top of the Courses page, click Cross-list Courses to open the tool. A window will pop up over the screen, and you can begin using the Cross-list Courses tool.

Error! Filename not specified.
How to use the Crosslist Courses tool
1.	The Bucket course will contain all of the rosters, content, and student grades. Use the dropdown menu to select a course. 
o	If you already have content set up on one of your sites, select that course as the Bucket course.
o	The Bucket course should be in an active or future term. Do not select a course from the past term.

Error! Filename not specified.

In this example, Section 01 will be the Bucket course to which the other sections will be added.
2.	Check the boxes for each section you want to move into the Bucket course. 
o	The selected sections will be moved from their original course to the Bucket Course. As a result, you will lose access to the original courses selected in Step 2 but still have access to the section.
o	Reminder: Select courses for the current or future term. Do not select courses from a past term.

Error! Filename not specified.

In this example, Sections 02, 03, 04, and 05 are selected and will be moved into the course for Section 01. Once cross-listed, you will lose access to these 4 course sites.
If you need access to a course after it was cross-listed, please contact the Canvas Help Desk.
3.	Enter the title for the new cross-listed course. 
o	The title entered will overwrite the Bucket Course title selected in Step 1.
o	After cross-listing, the Bucket course will have multiple sections inside. You may want to include those sections in the title.

Error! Filename not specified.

In this example, the Bucket course listed in Step 1 will be renamed to "2021SP – ORGANIC CHEM LAB (Sections 01-05)" upon submission. 
	NOTE: A warning message will appear if no name is entered in Step 3; if you continue without entering a name, the Crosslisted Course's name will be set to the bucket course's name. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	After clicking Submit, the browser will refresh when cross-listing is completed. The renamed Bucket Course will now appear on your course list. 

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Go into the Bucket course to verify the roster and course settings are correct. If anything is missing or if you selected the wrong Bucket courses, please email help@canvas.rutgers.edu to decross-list your sections.
" KB0016598 Rutgers-Developed Tools Rutgers NetID Lookup in Canvas for Admins "
Rutgers NetID Lookup, powered by Rutgers LDAP, is available only to Rutgers Canvas users with a Canvas Admin role and an active CAS session. Users who have been logged into Canvas for a long time may need to log out and log back in to refresh their NetID/CAS session.
Rutgers NetID Lookup allows Canvas admins to search for directory information for Rutgers NetID users. Rutgers Canvas Admins may search based on the following criteria:
•	Anywhere in Name: Matches any value that begins with the information you provide. You may use partial names, e.g., Quincy instead of John Quincy Adams
•	Last Name: Returns exact match, e.g., De Witt instead of Witt must be searched to return Simeon De Witt.
•	First Name: Returns exact match, e.g., Alexander instead of Alex must be searched to return Alexander Hamilton.
•	Email Address: Only default email addresses will be listed. A user may have multiple addresses so you may need to search by firstname.lastname@rutgers.edu, by netid@rutgers.edu, or by netid@domain.rutgers.edu
•	NetID: Returns an exact match.
•	Rutgers ID: Returns an exact match.
•	Banner A Number: Returns an exact match.
Search result limitations:
•	Search is not case-sensitive. Wildcards are not accepted, i.e., Jo* Smith.
•	Search results will only include Rutgers-affiliated faculty, staff, and students. Results will NOT include all Canvas users.
•	Search results will not include Rutgers-affiliated faculty, staff, and students who have opted out of directory searches or of displaying their email addresses.
•	Search results are limited to 100. If more than 100 results are returned, an error message will display.
How to access NetID Lookup in a course
Canvas admins may bookmark NetID Lookup. Rutgers NetID Lookup is not accessible to users without Canvas admin privileges. Note:
•	If you have recently logged in to Canvas and have an active CAS session, you will have immediate access to the NetID Lookup.
•	If your CAS session has expired when you access NetID Lookup, you will be prompted to log in with your NetID and password. Canvas admins should log in with their netid-adm account or the Canvas NetID account with admin privileges.
1.	In Course Navigation, click People.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click + People.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Only Canvas admins will see the Launch Rutgers NetID Lookup link in the Add People to dialog. Click the link. A new tab will open.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Search using the available fields. 

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0016597 Rutgers-Developed Tools Rutgers Shout-Out in Canvas "
Developed by Rutgers Camden IT and available across all campuses, Shout-Out provides students with a way to share the pronunciation of their names. Students within Canvas may share an audio clip or phonetic spelling of their name.
Rutgers Shout-Out is available to course editors and instructors in Rutgers Canvas, where you can manage your course navigation.
Student Guide
1.	Log in to Rutgers Canvas.
2.	Navigate to your Canvas course.
3.	In the course navigation menu, click Rutgers Shout-Out.
4.	Click Record to make a short audio recording of your name. You may need to allow the browser access to your microphone.
5.	Type the phonetic spelling of your name in the appropriate box.
6.	Select the Authorize check box to share with the instructor
7.	Click Save.
Instructor Guide
1.	Access your Canvas course from the course dashboard or the Courses menu.
2.	Click Rutgers Shout-Out in your course navigation. If it is not listed, enable it by managing the course navigation links in course Settings.
3.	The instructor's view for Rutgers Shout-Out includes enrolled students, indicated pronouns (if updated in their Canvas Account Profile), phonetic spelling of their name, and an audio recording. Click Play to hear a student’s name. This view is not available to students enrolled in your course.
4.	To make an audio recording of your name: 
1.	Click Show Student View.
2.	Click Record to record your name.
3.	After recording your name, click Stop.
4.	Click Play to listen to your recording.
5.	Click the 3 dots.
6.	Click Download.
7.	Share the recording in your Syllabus or on your About Your Instructor page.
" KB0013697 RUWireless Connect to ResNet during summer conferences "
ResNet utilizes dynamically assigned IP addresses (DHCP) that make getting online easier than statically assigned IP addresses. During each academic term, our system gets daily updates from Housing for all regular students. However, if you live in a residence hall at Rutgers due to a summer conference, your conference coordinator provides this information.
If you are living in a residence hall as a summer student, you should be able to register using your NetID and password. If you are unable to register, contact the OIT Help Desk.
If you are a Rutgers student or staff member and are living in a residence hall as a conference attendee, you should be able to register using your NetID and password. If you cannot register, contact your conference coordinator to confirm that your housing information was submitted to ResNet.
If you are unaffiliated with Rutgers and live in a residence hall as a conference attendee, your conference coordinator will supply you with your username and password for registration. If you cannot register, contact your conference coordinator to confirm that your housing information was submitted to ResNet.
" KB0012482 RUWireless Connecting to RUWireless "
RUWireless and RUWireless Secure are the two major networks available at Rutgers University.
Connecting to RUWireless does not require a password and has limited access. Upon connecting, you see the following screen:
Error! Filename not specified.
This network allows you to either:
•	Configure your device for RUWireless Secure, using your NetID and password.
•	Browse the internet as a guest. Please note that selecting this option will not allow you to connect to sites that require a NetID login. If you wish to access sites like Canvas, you can follow the instructions to connect to RUWireless Secure.
Connecting to RUWireless
1.	Select I want guest Internet access
2.	You will need to read and accept the Terms of Service.
3.	Click on I Agree.
4.	You will then be able to browse the internet using RUWireless.
" KB0012487 RUWireless Creating temporary RUWireless Secure guest accounts "
RUWireless Secure does not offer the option to create non-user accounts through the RGAMS interface.
For non-user accounts, please contact the OIT Help Desk with the use case for your account request.
Non-affiliates may use RUWireless or request a guest NetID to access RUWireless Secure.
To request a guest NetID, please visit the Rutgers Guest Request System and complete the Submit a Request as a new Guest form. 
" KB0012539 RUWireless How do I connect to RUWireless Secure "
To ensure your security, the Rutgers University network utilizes a secure authentication mechanism known as WPA2-Enterprise and 802.1X. This security mechanism protects your username and password. In a wireless environment, your data is also protected by network encryption. To utilize this secure network, your network connection requires specific settings.
Go to wifi.rutgers.edu to automatically configure your device for RUWireless Secure. After you are configured for RUWireless Secure, any time you are in range of a RUWireless access point, you will automatically connect to RUWireless Secure.
RUWireless Secure Locations
RUWireless Secure is broadcast on all of the RUWireless access points on all four Rutgers campuses. RUWireless Secure is available in all student centers and dining halls, most libraries, dorms, and many academic and administrative buildings across the University.
Why use RUWireless Secure?
•	RUWireless Secure utilizes a secure authentication mechanism known as WPA2-Enterprise and 802.1X, which keeps your username and password safe when logging in.
•	RUWireless Secure protects your data that is sent over the wireless network. Even when using non-SSL or HTTPS connections.
•	The RUWireless Secure supplicant stores your username and password, so any time you are within range of a RUWireless access point, you will automatically connect to RUWireless Secure, bypassing the login page.*
How to Set Up RUWireless Secure
1.	Connect to RUWireless: Select the wireless network named RUWireless from the list of available networks on your device.
2.	Open a Browser: A login page should appear. If not, manually navigate to wifi.rutgers.edu.
3.	Log In: Click "I have a NetID and password" and follow the on-screen instructions.
4.	Automatic Configuration: Once setup is complete, your device will automatically connect to RUWireless Secure whenever you're in range.
Step-by-step instructions
•	RUWireless Secure iOS setup
•	RUWireless Secure Android setup
•	RUWireless Secure Windows setup
•	RUWireless Secure MacOS setup
•	RUWireless Secure Linux setup
•	RUWireless Secure manual setup
" KB0012538 RUWireless How do I connect to RUWireless – for onboarding and guests "
RUWireless is a wireless network available to Rutgers University visitors. The network provides campus guests and visitors with access to the wireless network while on campus for web, email, and other communication needs. This is an open wireless network with specific service restrictions that provide no data privacy.
Intended Use
This network does not require authentication and is not encrypted. The network is provided for visitors and short-term guests, offering limited Internet access. The RUWireless network is meant for normal web browsing, and some services are restricted. CAS is specifically restricted so that Rutgers students, faculty, and staff must use RUWireless Secure. For more information about RUWireless Secure, please visit the RUWireless Secure Setup page.
Why use RUWireless?
•	Guest access – visitors to the University receive access to an unencrypted wireless network, which does not require authentication.
•	Onboarding – affiliated students, faculty, and staff can use RUWireless to initially connect to the Internet and configure RUWireless Secure.
For a step-by-step guide, please follow the RUWireless Login Instructions.
If you are a faculty or staff member with a guest who doesn't have a NetID and password and requires wireless access that is not fulfilled by the RUWireless (Guest) network, please contact help@oit.rutgers.edu with a detailed use case for your account request.
" KB0012559 RUWireless How to print on the RUWireless network "
Printing is not enabled on the RUWireless network. You are required to be on RUWireless Secure to print. Guests are not permitted to print from RUWireless Secure. 
1.	To connect to RUWireless Secure, follow the instructions on the How Do I Connect To RUWireless Secure article.
2.	Once connected, follow instructions on how to install Mobility Print and print using personal devices.
3.	You will need the physical copy of your RUID card to release the prints, even if it was printed from the Mobility Print app.
o	Print release stations can be located at specific sites in Rutgers–New Brunswick, Rutgers–Newark, and Rutgers–Camden.
o	Departmental labs not operated by Rutgers OIT are not supported locations for printouts via the Mobility App. 
For more information about printing on campus and its cost, please refer to the Rutgers printing overview.
 
" KB0012569 RUWireless Install Secure on Android Demo "
Local Server
If you are not signed into the wireless network, follow the steps to download the SecureW2 Application from a local server.
1.	Go to Settings > Security or Applications > Turn on Allow installation from unknown sources.
2.	Download SecureW2 JoinNow Application from a local server.
3.	Click the Join Now button below to finish your device configurations for RUWireless Secure.
Google Play Store
To download the SecureW2 Application from the Google Play Store, follow the steps below.
1.	Sign in to the network.
2.	From the Google Play Store, search and download the SecureW2 Application.
3.	Click the Join Now button below to finish your device configurations for RUWireless Secure.
If clicking the Join Now button does not open the SecureW2 App, please use Android's built-in browser or Chrome browser.
If you have any questions or concerns, contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0012584 RUWireless Mac OSX manual configuration for RUWireless "
If you are on macOS/OSX and are unable to run the .dmg installer to configure your device for RUWireless Secure, and you receive an error stating that the Installer is “damaged or corrupted,” please try to redownload the installer to ensure that it is not a download issue. If the error persists, please follow the remediation procedure below.
1.	Adjust Privacy & Security Settings 
1.	Click the Apple symbol in the top-left corner.
2.	Select System Settings.
3.	Navigate to Privacy & Security.
4.	Under Allow apps downloaded from, select the option for Anywhere or App Store and identified developers.
2.	Run the Installer 
1.	Try running the installer again.
2.	If it still won’t open, locate the .dmg file in Finder, right-click, and select Open. This should bypass the error and allow the installer to run successfully.
3.	Reconnect to RUWireless Secure 
o	Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the setup and connect to RUWireless Secure.
4.	Restore Privacy & Security Settings 
o	After successfully installing, return to Privacy & Security settings and reset them to their original configuration to maintain system security.
" KB0012648 RUWireless RUWireless policies "
Policies and guidelines
The Rutgers Acceptable Use Policy governs the use of RUWireless, policies specific to Office of Information Technology systems, and the RUWireless Virus and Bandwidth Guidelines. By using our networks, you agree to follow these policies and be responsible for any failure to do so. It is solely the user's responsibility to familiarize themselves with and adhere to the policy linked below.
Rutgers Acceptable Use Policy for Computing and Information Technology Resources 
By using the unsecured RUWireless network, you acknowledge that personal information can be compromised while being transmitted. Rutgers University cannot be held responsible for any resulting loss or damages, and as such, RUWireless encourages its users to utilize secure services when accessing network resources wirelessly.
If you wish to use RUWireless with encryption, please connect to RUWireless Secure.
Virus propagation guideline
RUWireless networks are automatically monitored for virus-like activity. Certain virus propagation techniques are scanned for and, if detected, are logged. The user of the offending host is then blocked from transmitting data until either the suspect activity can be explained or disinfection can be proven. Users are automatically notified when they attempt to log in to RUWireless of their "infected" status. It is the responsibility of the user to notify RUWireless administration when they are informed of their "infected" status, no attempt will be made to notify users by any other means.
It should be noted that certain seemingly harmless hacking attempts, such as port scanning or ping flooding a host, can be mistaken as virus propagation and will result in a loss of privileges on RUWireless.
Bandwidth utilization guideline
Bandwidth that passes through RUWireless and RUWireless Secure is dynamically allocated based on the combined usage of all clients. This approach generally results in higher network speeds than the previous limit of 3Mbps per host. The Internet bandwidth allocated to RUWireless is capped at 2Gbps; however, internal University traffic is not metered.
The system passively monitors network throughput when traffic is light. The system issues per-connection penalties as the overall usage approaches its limit based on the duration of each connection, a device's bandwidth consumption, and the number of active connections. In the long term, large consumers of data are more likely to be penalized when utilization is high, while burst traffic, such as voice, email, and web browsing, will be given priority. The system does not inspect the payload of the traffic that passes through it at any time in this process.
This is still a best-effort technology. Actual network speeds will vary based on several factors, including the model of the access point, client device, client load on the local access points, interference, overall network congestion, and remote server.
We are evaluating this approach on the New Brunswick/Piscataway campuses now and hope to employ it elsewhere in the future.
" KB0012649 RUWireless RUWireless Secure Android alternate setup "
Android semi-manual setup
If the standard setup instructions do not allow you to connect, please try the steps below and then follow the fully manual setup instructions.
Please Note: If you were previously on the RUWireless network and clicked "I have a NetID and Password" you must wait about five minutes for the session to timeout. 
Instead of using the RUWireless network, this process can also be completed on mobile data, if doing so please skip to step four.
1.	Open your Wi-Fi settings and select RUWireless from the list of available wireless networks.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Open your web browser, and you should be redirected automatically to the page below. If you are not redirected, please go to wifi.rutgers.edu and click I want Guest Internet Access.


     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click I Agree to accept the terms and conditions of Guest Access.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Navigate to wifi.rutgers.edu in a web browser, then click Download next to step 1 to install the required application.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	The Google Play Store will open and you will need to select Install.

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Tap Accept if prompted for app permissions.

     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Go into the JoinNow MultiOS application and click on Search and Setup New Network.

     Error! Filename not specified.
8.	Enter rutgers.edu into the Domain field and leave the Code field blank, then press Continue. It may take some time for the app to locate the necessary configurations.

     Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Select the RUWirelessSecure (it should be the third option down).

     Error! Filename not specified.
10.	Enter your NetID and Password when prompted, then press Continue.

     Error! Filename not specified.
11.	You should be notified when the configuration is successful, allowing you to access RUWireless Secure in all supported locations.

     Error! Filename not specified.
12.	If you are unable to connect after trying the method above, please try to attempt manual setup.
" KB0012650 RUWireless RUWireless Secure Android manual setup "
Android fully manual setup
If the standard setup and the semi-manual setup instructions do not allow you to connect, please try the steps below.
1.	If you currently have the SecureW2 Android App (JoinNow MultiOS) please uninstall it from your phone.
2.	Go into WiFi settings. Press and hold on RUWireless Secure and RUWireless then select Forget Network for each.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Open your web browser and go to wifi.rutgers.edu, but this time at the bottom set Select your device to Non-specific OS.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Underneath "CA Certificate", download the underlined link labeled USERTrust RSA Certification Authority ( Jan 18 2038 )

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Once this certificate has been downloaded, you will likely see a pop up informing you that CA certificates must be installed in settings. Go to your Settings app, and search for "CA Certificate".

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	On the Certificates page, click on the Wi-Fi Certificate option and locate the file usertrustrsacertificationauthority.cer to install the certificate. When installing the certificate, please enter a Certificate Name of your choosing for easy identification.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	In WiFi settings, select Add Network and enter the information below:

Network name: RUWireless Secure
Security: WPA/WPA2-Enterprise
Identity: [Your Rutgers NetID]
Password: [Your Rutgers NetID Password]
CA Certificate: (the previously downloaded certificate from step 6)
Domain: rutgers.edu
EAP Method: TTLS
Phase 2 Authentication: PAP
Hidden Network should be set to "Yes"
All other fields can be left alone
Click Connect and your device should now connect to RUWireless Secure.
 
If you cannot connect after trying the standard, semi-manual, and this fully manual setup, please contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0012651 RUWireless RUWireless Secure Android setup "
There are a lot of different manufacturers of Android devices. Many of them have different tweaks to the interface. Navigating through menus and settings will look different depending on your Android version and manufacturer.
If you encounter any issues during the installation, please follow the semi-manual then the fully manual setup instructions.
1.	Open your WiFi settings and select RUWireless from the list of available wireless networks.
2.	Open your web browser, and you should be redirected automatically to the page below, select I have a NetID and Password. If you are not redirected, please navigate to wifi.rutgers.edu. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click on Join RUWireless Secure.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	This will redirect you to the RUWireless Secure Installer. Click Download next to step 1 to install the required application.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	When you tap on Download, the Google Play Store will open and you will need to select Install. If you are unable to download the application or are not properly directed to the Play Store, please see the alternate setup instructions.

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Tap Accept if prompted for app permissions.
7.	Once the SecureW2 application installation finishes, return to your web browser and select JoinNow on the same page you opened before. If you are not returned to this page, please navigate to wifi.rutgers.edu in a web browser.

     Error! Filename not specified.
8.	The SecureW2 application will be brought up, and the configuration will be downloaded. When prompted, enter your NetID and NetID password. Then click Continue. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Select Save to save the network to your phone. 

    Error! Filename not specified.
10.	Once the setup process is completed successfully, the RUWireless Secure network will show as Connected.

    Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0012652 RUWireless RUWireless Secure iOS setup "
1.	On your iPhone device, go to Settings > WiFi.
2.	Toggle on Wi-Fi.
3.	Choose RUWireless from the list of available wireless networks.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	You will automatically be directed to the screen below. Select I have a NetID and Password. If it does not appear, open a Safari browser and manually navigate to the RUWireless Secure Setup Page.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	This will redirect you to your campus installer. Click on Join RUWireless Secure, then Open if prompted to open your web browser. 

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Enter your NetID and NetID password, and click JoinNow. 

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Click on Allow to download the configuration profile. 

Error! Filename not specified.
8.	If prompted to choose a device, select the device on which you are installing RUWireless Secure, and you'll receive a confirmation that the profile has been downloaded. 

Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Navigate to your device Settings > Profile Downloaded. If it does not appear, go to Settings > General > VPN & Device Management to view the downloaded profile. 
10.	Click on the RUWireless Secure Profile > Install to continue. Enter your device passcode if prompted. 

Error! Filename not specified.
11.	Click Install, then click on Install again on the pop-up. 

Error! Filename not specified.
12.	At this point, the profile should be installed. Tap Done. 

Error! Filename not specified.
13.	Go back to your WiFi settings and select RUWireless Secure from the list.

Error! Filename not specified.
14.	Once you see the blue checkmark, the setup process is complete and you can browse the internet via RUWireless Secure.
Common Issue
If you receive a pop-up prompting you to enter your NetID Password again while trying to connect to RUWireless Secure, follow the troubleshooting steps below:
•	You have either entered the wrong NetID or NetID password. You may try entering your password again.
•	If the pop-up continues, you must restart the setup process from Step 1 again.
•	If you are still experiencing issues, please consider resetting your NetID Password using the NetID Management & Service Activation tool.
" KB0012653 RUWireless RUWireless Secure Linux setup "
For systems with Network-Manager installed (if you have a WiFi icon on your Linux system you likely have Network-Manager installed).
1.	Download the certificate, which we will use to set up to ensure you only connect to legitimate RUWireless Secure networks.
2.	Click on the WiFi network icon on your system and select Connect to Hidden Wi-Fi Network
3.	The window will then expand, please fill in the following fields as described below:
Authentication: Tunneled TLS
Anonymous identity: Leave this field blank.
CA certificate: Select the previously downloaded certificate from the first step.
Inner authentication: PAP
Username: Your NetID Username
Password: Your NetID Password
4.	Then click connect, you should be able to connect without issue anytime RUWireless Secure is within range.
For systems without Network-Manager installed or if you encounter any errors in the above steps, please contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0012654 RUWireless RUWireless Secure MacOS setup "
1.	Go to the Wi-Fi network selection screen on your Mac and choose the RUWireless network. 

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	A window will automatically open and direct you to the screen below. If it does not, open a browser and navigate to wifi.rutgers.edu.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Select I have a NetID and password. 
4.	You'll be redirected to the installer page for your operating system. It should automatically detect that you are on macOS. If this is not the case, look for the option Select your device and choose macOS from the dropdown menu. 

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Select JoinNow to download the RUWireless Secure Installer.  
1.	If the download does not complete, or you can not find it, open a browser and go to wifi.rutgers.edu. 
2.	You'll be redirected to the installer page for your operating system. It should automatically detect that you are on macOS. 
3.	Select JoinNow to download the RUWireless Secure Installer.
6.	A window containing the RUWireless Secure installer should appear when the download finishes. If it does not, check the folder where you downloaded the installer to and look for a file that says RUWirelessSecure.dmg. Once this folder is open, double-click on the SecureW2 icon.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	You may be prompted to confirm that you want to open the app. Click Open to proceed. If you are not prompted for this, proceed to the next step.

Error! Filename not specified.
8.	Enter your Rutgers NetID and NetID Password on the window that appears and click Next. 

Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Depending on which macOS your device is running, the system may require you to install the profile in your System Preferences. 
1.	If so, enter your device password when prompted.
2.	Click OK.  

Error! Filename not specified.
10.	Click Next to proceed with installing the profile in your System Preferences. Click the link in the window for a video walk-through of the next steps. 

Error! Filename not specified.
 
11.	You'll be prompted to install the profile in your System Preferences. Depending on your operating system, do one of the following:
o	In the Profiles window that opens, double-click on the RUWireless Secure profile. Then click Install, and click Install again. 

Error! Filename not specified.

Error! Filename not specified.

Error! Filename not specified.
o	Or, click Install in the window that appears. 

Error! Filename not specified.
12.	Use your device credentials to confirm you want to make this change. 
13.	Wait for the installer to connect and authenticate.
14.	The installer may ask to access your keychain. If it does, select Always Allow.
15.	You'll see a Joined message at the end of the installation process. Click Done.
Your computer should now be configured to connect to RUWireless Secure.
" KB0012655 RUWireless RUWireless Secure manual setup configuration settings "
Manual configuration settings for RUWireless Secure:
Table 1. RUWireless Secure manual setup configuration settings, listing required security, authentication, certificate, and server details.
Configuration Item	Configuration Details
Layer 2 Mode/Security  	WPA2 Enterprise
Encryption  	AES CCMP
EAP TYPE / Authentication  	TTLS
Inner Authentication  	PAP
Certificate  	RUWireless_Secure crt
Outer Identity / Username  	[Your Rutgers Netid]
SSID  	RUWireless Secure
Trusted Server  	ruw.rutgers.edu
SHA1 Fingerprint  	02FAF3E291435468607857694DF5E45B68851868
For manual setup on Android devices, please reference RUWireless Secure Android manual setup.
Please note that RUWireless Secure is a hidden network.
It is also recommended that you enable options to Validate Server Certificate and Verify Server Name if your client allows.
" KB0012656 RUWireless RUWireless Secure Windows setup "
1.	From the WiFi network selection screen, you must first connect to the RUWireless network. 

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Your web browser will automatically open and direct you to the screen below, select I have a NetID and Password. If it does not, open a browser and navigate to wifi.rutgers.edu. 

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	This will redirect you to your campus installer. Choose the operating system you are using. Then select JoinNow.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Once the installer is downloaded, open the file and click Run.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Enter your Rutgers University NetID and NetID Password, and click Next. 

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Wait for the installer to connect and authenticate.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	At the end of the install process, this screen should appear and you can click Done. Your computer should now be configured to connect to RUWireless Secure.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0012657 RUWireless RUWireless terms of service for guest internet access "
The purpose of this service is to provide free public wireless Internet access ("the Service") to visitors of Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey ("Rutgers"). You may use the Service only if you agree to the following terms of service ("TOS") each time you access the Service. Rutgers students, faculty and staff must use the secure wireless service by selecting "I have a NetID and password" above. 
Access
Access to the Service is at the full discretion of Rutgers and may be blocked, suspended, or terminated at any time for any reason including, but not limited to, violation of this Agreement, actions that may lead to liability for Rutgers University, disruption of access to other users or networks, or violation of applicable laws or regulations. Rutgers may revise the TOS at any time. You must accept these TOS each time you use the Service and it is your responsibility to review it for any changes. This is an open wireless network that provides NO privacy for your data. The Service should not be considered private or protected. All communications over the Service are subject to monitoring. Rutgers reserves the right to limit throughput or access.
Acceptable Use
By using the Service and any activities conducted through the Service, you are agreeing not to violate any applicable law or regulation or the rights of Rutgers, or any third party. Rutgers cannot accept any responsibility for any injury or loss that results from inaccurate, unsuitable, offensive, or illegal Internet communications.
Disclaimer
All data, hardware, software, and documentation provided as part of the Service is provided “as is” without warranty of any kind, either express or implied. This disclaimer of liability applies to any damages or injury caused by any failure of performance, error, omission, interruption, deletion, defect, delay in operation or transmission, computer virus, communication line failure, theft or destruction or unauthorized access to, alteration of, or use of record, whether for breach of contract, tortious behavior, negligence, or under any other cause of action. You, the User, specifically acknowledge that Rutgers is not liable for your defamatory, offensive, infringing or illegal materials or conduct, or that of third parties, and Rutgers reserves the right to terminate your access with or without notice at any time with or without cause and without liability.
Disavowal of Liability
Under no circumstances, shall Rutgers or anyone else involved in administering, distributing or providing the Service, be liable for any indirect, incidental, special or consequential damages, including without limitation, loss of revenues or lost profits, or damages that result from the use of or inability to use the Service, mistakes, omissions, interruptions, delegation or deletion of files or e-mail errors, defects, viruses, delays in operation or transmission, failure of performance, theft, destruction or unauthorized access to the User’s records, hardware, software, peripherals, programs or services, even if the User has been advised of the possibility of such losses. The User is expressly placed on notice that the Service provided by Rutgers comes without the protection of a firewall or other such security.
" KB0012647 RUWireless RUWireless- Guest access instructions "
The RUWireless network provides wireless internet access for people on campus who do not have a NetID.
If you have a NetID, please follow the instructions on configuring your device for RUWireless Secure. 
1.	To connect to RUWireless, go to the WiFi settings? on your device and select the RUWireless network.
2.	Once you have associated with RUWireless, you will be automatically redirected to the RUWireless login web page. 
3.	Click I want Guest Internet Access.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Read the Terms of Service Agreement, scroll to the bottom of the page, and click I Accept.
5.	Once you are successfully authenticated to RUWireless, you will be redirected to the RUWireless home page.
" KB0012731 RUWireless Windows RUWireless Secure manual setup "
Windows fully manual setup
1.	Right-click on the ethernet/Wi-Fi icon in the bottom right-hand corner of the screen and select Open Network & Internet settings.
2.	Click on Network and Sharing Center.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click on Set up a new connection or network

      Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Select Manually connect to a wireless network.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Enter the following information for the RUWireless Secure network:
o	Network name: RUWireless Secure
o	Security type: WPA2-Enterprise
o	Encryption type: AES (option grayed out)
o	Security Key: (option grayed out)
o	Check the box next to Start this connection automatically.
o	Check the box next to Connect even if the network is not broadcasting.
o	Click on Next.

   Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Click on Change connection settings.

     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Navigate to the tab labeled Security and configure your settings with the information below:
1.	Security type: WPA2-Enterprise
2.	Encryption type: AES
3.	Choose Microsoft: EAP-TTLS from the dropdown menu beneath Choose a network authentication method.
4.	Check the box next to Remember my credentials for this connection each time I’m logged on.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Click on Settings next to the dropdown menu.
1.	Uncheck the box next to Enable identity privacy.
2.	Click on the circle next to Select a non-EAP method for authentication.
3.	Choose Unencrypted password (PAP) from the dropdown menu.
4.	Click OK.

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Click on Advanced settings.
1.	Check the box next to Specify authentication mode.
2.	Choose User authentication from the dropdown menu.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click on Save credentials next to the dropdown menu.
4.	Enter your NetID in the User name box.
5.	Enter your NetID password in the Password box.
6.	Click OK.

     Error! Filename not specified.
8.	Click OK (if available) or close out of all of the remaining open windows.
9.	Select the Ethernet/Wi-Fi icon in the bottom right-hand corner of the screen, make sure the Wi-Fi option is turned on, then select RUWireless Secure from available networks and select Connect.

     Error! Filename not specified.

" KB0012992 RUWireless FAQ Are Linux operating systems supported on RUWireless? "
Yes, Linux OS is supported on RUWireless. However, Linux devices must be manually configured for their Network-Manager to connect to RUWireless Secure.
" KB0012995 RUWireless FAQ How do I access the RUWireless Guest Account Management System (RGAMS)? "
RUWireless Secure no longer offers the option to create non-user accounts through the RGAMS interface. For non-user accounts, please contact help@oit.rutgers.edu with the use case for your account request. Non-affiliates may use RUWireless or request a guest NetID to receive RUWireless Secure access.
" KB0012985 RUWireless FAQ How do I get an account for RUWireless Secure? "
To connect to RUWireless Secure, you need an active NetID and password. This secure network is available to all Rutgers University students, faculty, staff, guests, retirees, and professors emeriti with a valid NetID.
For detailed instructions tailored to your device or operating system, refer to the links below:
•	RUWireless Secure iOS setup
•	RUWireless Secure Android setup
•	RUWireless Secure Windows setup
•	RUWireless Secure MacOS setup
•	RUWireless Secure Linux setup
•	RUWireless Secure manual setup
If you do not have a Rutgers NetID or are not affiliated with the University, you can connect to the network using RUWireless.
" KB0012994 RUWireless FAQ How do I get RUWireless installed in my department/building? "
RUWireless is made available to departments on a contractual basis. Please use the Project Service Request Page to submit your request to install RUWireless in your department or building.
" KB0012996 RUWireless FAQ How do I print on the RUWireless Secure Network? "
Please refer to the Rutgers printing overview to learn more about printing on campus and follow the instructions on how to install Mobility Print to print from personal devices.
" KB0012986 RUWireless FAQ I am trying to use RUWireless Secure but I'm having trouble getting the installer to work. "
Various devices have different steps to install RUWireless secure for your device, so we recommend first checking the guide on how to install RUWireless Secure for your device.
If you are still having issues after following the respective steps, please contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0012988 RUWireless FAQ "I can connect to RUWireless, but not redirected to the login page. Is there another way to login?" "
If you are in a RUWireless coverage area and connected to RUWireless, then you should get redirected when you attempt to load any Rutgers or external webpage.
If you do not get redirected, you should try to refresh your browser after 45 seconds. In some cases, when you first connect to a wireless network, multiple applications and/or browser extensions can try to update all at once, making our system think your computer is infected with a virus or spyware. This will cause you to be put in a penalty role for 30 seconds. After those 30 seconds, you will be released from this role. Restarting your browser will not help fix this problem and may cause all of your extensions to be reloaded and trigger the penalty role again.
In other cases, the webpage you are trying to reach might not be redirectable, including but not limited to SSL-encrypted HTTPS pages.
You may try to load another webpage, such as Google, to be redirected to the RUWireless Secure login page.
Optionally, you may navigate directly to the wifi.rutgers.edu to get started.
 
 
" KB0012989 RUWireless FAQ I can't find configuration instructions for my device. Will it work on RUWireless? "
The RUWireless network is typically reserved for visitors and used to provide general open internet access. This network has certain service restrictions and is not intended for use by Rutgers-affiliated individuals, as explained further in the connecting to RUWireless guide. If you are affiliated with Rutgers and have an active NetID, please follow the instructions for the RUWireless Secure setup, or the RUWireless Secure manual setup. If your device cannot connect to the RUWireless Secure network, please contact the OIT Help Desk.
 
" KB0012993 RUWireless FAQ Should I install a firewall or turn on my built-in firewall to protect my laptop? "
It is generally recommended to use the built-in firewalls in Windows and macOS as they provide valuable protection against other wireless hosts using RUWireless. Further information regarding OS specific built-in firewalls can be found below:
•	Windows Firewall Overview
•	macOS Firewall Overview
Please note that the wireless gateways that control your access to RUWireless also act as powerful firewalls to protect you against hosts on the other side of the gateway.
" KB0012991 RUWireless FAQ What wireless standards does RUWireless support? "
RUWireless access points support the following in wireless standards:
•	802.11a 
•	802.11ac 
•	802.11b 
•	802.11g 
•	802.11n 
•	802.11ax
" KB0012987 RUWireless FAQ Why am I not able to send e-mail from RUWireless? "
Sending an email from RUWireless is possible, but it is restricted. Most email clients use the SMTP protocol to send emails.
Due to a large increase in the number of email viruses that spread using SMTP, RUWireless prevents email clients from connecting to non-Rutgers SMTP email servers (ports 25 and 465).
You can still send email through webmail services or trusted Rutgers SMTP servers using any authorized Rutgers-affiliated email address.
" KB0012990 RUWireless FAQ Why is the wireless connection slower than a wired connection? "
There are several reasons why a wireless connection is slower than a wired connection. First, the technology itself is slower than most wired connections. Second, RUWireless uses a QoS bandwidth limitation to provide a fair level of service to all users. Without it, it would be possible for a single user to sit very close to an access point and “hog” all of the bandwidth. Third, the amount of bandwidth you get is partially determined by how strong your signal is, so even though the RUWireless team has made every effort to provide clear, strong signals in marked coverage areas, there still remains the possibility of outside interference such as microwaves and cordless phones which can drastically affect bandwidth.
" KB0012729 RUWireless FAQ Why is there a wireless access point in my room? "
What is a Wireless AP?
A wireless Access Point (AP) is a networking hardware device that allows Wi-Fi devices to connect to a network. They are used to provide network connectivity in large buildings and spaces. They make sure that everyone at Rutgers – students, teachers, and staff – can get a good wireless internet connection through the RUWireless network, wherever they are in the building.
Error! Filename not specified.
Why is it in my room?
The AP is in your room to ensure that the equipment is able to service full coverage and multiple devices, and some wireless access points are permanently installed within dorm rooms and apartments. These access points cannot be moved or removed as they are strategically placed to successfully service all residents.
If you have any questions or concerns about having the wireless devices in your room or apartment, you can contact Residence Life at (848) 445-0750 or oncampus@rutgers.edu for more information.
If you have any questions or concerns about wireless signal exposure, please see the FCC webpage for Wireless Safety information.
" KB0012999 ScarletApps FAQ Are ScarletApps accounts required for all students? "
Email from Rutgers is sometimes tagged as spam or blocked by external email service providers. For this reason, Rutgers requires all Students to have a ScarletMail account to receive all official Rutgers emails. You may choose to forward your ScarletMail email to an external email account, but the ScarletMail account cannot be removed as a delivery address. 
If you are a Student in certain programs and you have access to personal health information (PHI), you may not be able to set ScarletMail as the Official Rutgers Delivery Address. In cases like this, your department will supply you with an additional email account on Rutgers Connect that you may use.
" KB0013001 ScarletApps FAQ Can a Rutgers department have access to the ScarletApps service? "
Per the Google Terms of Service, each Gmail account is intended and designed for use by an individual user. If there are multiple users frequently accessing the same account from various locations, you may reach a Gmail threshold and your account will be temporarily locked down. For this reason, departments cannot have shared accounts on ScarletMail. Departments can instead create a Google Group which can include a collaborative Inbox that multiple people can access. Learn more about what benefits Google Groups provide. 
" KB0013006 ScarletApps FAQ Can student teachers join district Google Classroom instances? "
Yes, all ScarletMail users are allowed to join any and all Google domains that use Google Classroom Teachers.
" KB0013003 ScarletApps FAQ How can I submit a request for a Marketplace App to be added to the current suite of ScarletApps? "
You can submit a request by filling out the software integration request form.
" KB0012998 ScarletApps FAQ How do I activate my ScarletApps service? "
To activate the ScarletApps service, if you are eligible, you will need to first active a NetID and password. If you do not have an active NetID please go to the NetID Management Page and click on NetID Activation. During the NetID activation process, you will have the option of activating the ScarletApps service.
If you have previously activated your NetID and simply want to activate the ScarletApps service go to the Service Activation Page. Under the Rutgers ScarletApps/ScarletMail section click on Activate Service.
" KB0013005 ScarletApps FAQ How do I get Teacher access for Google Classroom? "
If you are a Faculty or Staff member at the University and require Teacher access to Google Classroom, there are two things you need to do:
1.	Log in to your ScarletMail Account and go to classroom.google.com. Once there, choose the Teacher option.
2.	Next, fill out this form.
Once both of these steps have been done, your request will be reviewed and processed within 1 to 2 business days.
" KB0013002 ScarletApps FAQ Is faculty/staff email included in ScarletApps? "
Yes. Rutgers Connect is the official mail and calendaring system for faculty and staff, and per University policy, should be used for all official University business. However, any faculty or staff member can create a ScarletMail account as well, but a ScarletMail account should be used only when necessary for student or Google-related business. 
" KB0018654 ScarletApps FAQ NotebookLM "
NotebookLM differs from traditional AI modules by allowing you to upload documents, webpages, videos, and audio files to a custom notebook. The tool then uses Google’s Gemini AI to analyze, digest, and make connections between the source material and transform the sources into study guides, mind maps, and even audio.
With the Rutgers license for NotebookLM, your data, including uploaded sources, queries related to the sources, and query responses, are not used to train Google’s AI models. 
What can I use NotebookLM for?
NotebookLM is useful for creating study guides, summarizing long documents, organizing research, creating outlines, and more. 
However, it should not be used to process any data that is considered PHI or used for University Business in accordance with University Policy 70.1.6. Review the ScarletApps section on the Data Classification Matrix for details on what can and cannot be used in NotebookLM. 
Who can use NotebookLM?
NotebookLM is part of the ScartMail/ScarletApps suite of tools and, therefore, is available at no cost to students, faculty, and staff who have a ScarletMail account.
When using NotebookLM with a ScarletMail account, you receive additional data privacy protections and ensure that materials, queries, and query responses are not used to train other AI models.
How is NotebookLM accessed? 
To access NotebookLM, you can visit the NotebookLM website and log in with your ScarletMail account. To utilize the data privacy protections, ensure you are logged in with your ScarletMail account, and not a personal Google account. 
Faculty and staff who do not have a ScarletMail account can activate their account to access the product.
Additional Information
Google provides a variety of documentation about NotebookLM. 
•	Learn more about the NotebookLM product
•	8 tips for getting started with NotebookLM
•	NotebookLM help
" KB0013011 ScarletApps FAQ What are Google Groups? "
As part of ScarletApps, Faculty, Staff, and Students at the University have access to Google Groups.
Google Groups provides the following services:
•	Shared Calendars that can be accessed by members of a group, which can be used to organize meetings, conferences, or social events among members of a group.
•	Shared Documents and file storage through Google Drive.
•	Shared website that can be accessed and maintained by members of the group.
•	Engage in discussions about a specific subject.
•	Read group posts through email, the online interface, or both.
•	Group-based email address in the form of [GROUPNAME]-group@scarletmail.rutgers.edu
o	By default, a Group works like a mailing list, where messages are simply distributed to all individual mailboxes of members of the group.
•	An alternative when using Groups is Google's Collaborative Inbox. 
o	The Collaborative Inbox is designed as an email Inbox that multiple people work on together.
o	It uses a web-based interface that automatically threads replies.
o	Each conversation in the Inbox can be individually assigned, and the Inbox will function even if affiliated individuals separate from the University.
o	For more information on Collaborative Inbox, please read how to make a group a Collaborative Inbox.
To create a Group, follow Google's guide on Getting Started with Groups. 
" KB0013017 ScarletApps FAQ What bandwidth or other limits are on ScarletApps? "
To help keep the system healthy and the accounts safe, all Scarlet Apps accounts have a limited amount of bandwidth. Certain activities that transfer large amounts of data in a short period of time, like synchronizing a ScarletMail account to a mobile phone or mail client, can cause an account to reach these limits.
The following limits apply to ScarletMail and Drive. These limits may change without notice in order to protect the ScarletApps infrastructure.
•	Sending limits
•	Receiving limits
•	Request limits
•	Bandwidth limits
" KB0013010 ScarletApps FAQ What is Google Classroom? "
Classroom is available to anyone with a ScarletMail account. It is a free suite of productivity tools including Gmail and Drive.
It is designed to help teachers create and collect assignments paperless, including time-saving features like the ability to automatically make a copy of a Google Document for each student. It also creates Drive folders for each assignment and for each student to help keep everyone organized.
Students can keep track of what’s due on the Assignments page and begin working with just a click. Teachers can quickly see who has or hasn’t completed the work, and provide direct, real-time feedback and grades right in Classroom.
To use Google Classroom log into your ScarletMail Account and go to classroom.google.com
" KB0013012 ScarletApps FAQ What is Google Drive? "
With Google Drive, you can securely upload any file or folder to the web and access the most up-to-date versions of those files from anywhere. You can access Google Drive in your web browser, and you can also download the Drive application to your Mac, PC, Android, or iOS devices to seamlessly access files across any of these devices (Note: You can only connect to one Google account using the downloaded Drive application). 
ScarletMail/ScarletApps accounts are limited to 30 gigabytes (GB) of storage.
For more information on Google Drive, please visit the Google Drive Help Center.
" KB0013007 ScarletApps FAQ "What is Google Workspace for Education, and how does Rutgers implement it?" "
As a result of university-wide student input, the Office of Information Technology (OIT) provides Google Workspace for Education for all Faculty, Staff, and Students. The Google Workspace for Education suite offers outstanding communication and collaboration tools that can enrich the university experience for faculty and students. The Rutgers implementation is called ScarletApps. The Rutgers Google Domain is called scarletmail.rutgers.edu. Google hosts the service in partnership with Rutgers.
For a current list of available ScarletApps, see Available Apps. 
Google Apps for Education includes, among others:
•	Gmail: Email storage and search tools that help students find information fast, and instant messaging from right inside their accounts.
•	Google Calendar: Students can organize their schedules and share events and calendars with others.
•	Google Talk: Students can call or send instant messages to their contacts for free anytime, anywhere in the world.
•	Google Drive: Share documents, spreadsheets, and presentations. Collaborate in real-time with their team or with their whole school. Students can publish final documents to the entire world, too.
•	Google Sites: Work together to keep related documents, web content, and other information in one place, on one site.
•	Google Meet: A video hosting and sharing solution that enables schools and other organizations to use video as an effective medium for internal communication and collaboration.
" KB0012997 ScarletApps FAQ Who is eligible for the ScarletApps service? "
Any active student, faculty, staff, Professor Emeritus, sponsored guests, and those recognized with an alumni/retiree role may use the ScarletApps service.
" KB0013009 ScarletApps FAQ Why are Google Apps @Rutgers slightly different from similar services provided by Google publicly? "
The difference is mostly in the look and feel of these applications. Google also delegates control of the Google Apps for Education and users' accounts at Rutgers to Rutgers IT administrators. This helps enable Rutgers to provide a higher level of security and support than consumer Gmail accounts. 
Note that Rutgers has not enabled all applications that are available. For a current list of available ScarletApps, see the Available Apps.
" KB0013000 ScarletApps FAQ Why Google? "
The ScarletApps project was initiated as a result of university-wide student input. Other free hosted email solutions that were able to support the Rutgers student constituency were considered, including Microsoft Live@edu, Yahoo, and more. Google Apps for Education was selected because of its extensive suite of applications and its success at many other universities.
" KB0012448 ScarletMail Additional Apps Available in ScarletApps "
ScarletApps Suite
The ScarletApps suite includes the core Google-hosted applications:
•	AppSheet
•	Calendar
•	Chat
•	Chrome Sync
•	Classroom
•	Cloud Search
•	Drive
•	Docs
•	Gemini
•	Gmail
•	Groups for Business
•	Keep
•	Meet
•	Migrate
•	NotebookLM
•	Read Along
•	Sites
•	Tasks
•	Vault
•	Voice
•	Workspace LTI™
For more information regarding ScarletApps, please view the ScarletApps - Rutgers IT page. 
Google Services
In addition to the ScarletApps core suite, Google offers additional services. To view additional Google services, please visit the Google Workspace Admin Help page. Under Additional Google services, choose the Additional services with an individual On or Off control drop-down menu to view all services and their respective descriptions. 
Although Google Suite provides these services, some may not be available on the ScarletApps suite. Contractual terms and conditions have been negotiated to protect the privacy and confidentiality of data associated with the core suite. The additional apps, however, have their own Google Terms of Service. You can view the additional Terms of Service by viewing the link above or by clicking on Terms of Service at the bottom of most application websites.
To learn more about ScarletApps or Google services, please contact the OIT Help Desk for support. 
" KB0015372 ScarletMail FAQ: Alumni email forwarding transition to ScarletMail "
The university replaced the “@alumni.rutgers.edu” forwarding service with a more efficient, user-friendly email service known as ScarletMail, the Rutgers version of Gmail. It is part of the ScarletApps suite of services, the Rutgers installation of Google Workspace for Education.
The following FAQs apply to anyone who completed and answered Yes on the requested form in the email communication sent to those with an @alumni.rutgers.edu forwarding address.
Will I be able to set my @alumni.rutgers.edu email address to be the default “from” email address for my ScarletMail account?
•	Yes, you can set your default “from” email address to send mail from either @alumni.rutgers.edu or @scarletmail.rutgers.edu.
Will @alumni become an alias for the ScarletMail account?
•	Yes, if you completed the requested form before October 31st, 2022 emails sent to both your @alumni.rutgers.edu and @scarletmail.rutgers.edu addresses will be delivered to your ScarletMail account.
What happens if I have an existing ScarletMail account?
•	If you completed the requested form prior to October 31st, 2022, and you already have a ScarletMail account, you will get an @alumni.rutgers.edu alias added to your ScarletMail account.
What if I do not have a NetID?
•	If you have never had a NetID, follow the guide on how to activate your NetID. If you have any issues when you first try to activate it, repeat the same steps a second time, as this should resolve most issues.
•	If you previously had a NetID but do not remember what it is, follow the instructions on how to find your NetID.
What if I forgot my NetID password?
•	If you do not remember your password, follow the instructions on how to reset your forgotten NetID password.
" KB0012514 ScarletMail Forwarding ScarletMail to Rutgers Connect "
Per University Policy 70.1.6, all email and calendaring used to conduct University Business must be created, stored, processed, and transmitted using the official University Email and Calendaring systems; where University Business is defined as "work performed as part of an employee’s job responsibilities, daily work, and duties performed on behalf of the University by faculty, staff, student workers, guests, and other persons."
If you are faculty or staff, all email activity related to University Business should be conducted by default on Rutgers Connect and not through ScarletMail. 
Turn on automatic forwarding
1.	On your computer, open Gmail and log in with your NetID@scarletmail.rutgers.edu address. 
2.	In the top right, click Settings and then See all settings.
3.	Click the Forwarding and POP/IMAP tab.
4.	In the "Forwarding" section, click Add a forwarding address.
5.	Enter your Rutgers Connect email address in the format netid@domain.rutgers.edu.
6.	Click Next, then Proceed, and then OK.
7.	A verification message will be sent to that address. Click the verification link in that message.
8.	Go back to the settings page for the Gmail account you want to forward messages from, and refresh your browser.
9.	Click the Forwarding and POP/IMAP tab.
10.	In the "Forwarding" section, select Forward a copy of incoming mail to. 
11.	Choose what you want to happen with the ScarletMail copy of your emails. It is recommended to keep a copy in your ScarletMail. 
12.	At the bottom of the page, click Save Changes. 
Turn off automatic forwarding
1.	On your computer, open Gmail and log in with your NetID@scarletmail.rutgers.edu address. 
2.	In the top right, click Settings and then See all settings.
3.	Click the Forwarding and POP/IMAP tab.
4.	In the "Forwarding" section, click Disable forwarding.
5.	At the bottom, click Save Changes.
" KB0012528 ScarletMail Google Drive for Desktop "
Google offers a desktop application that lets you quickly access all your Google Drive files on demand, directly from your computer, without using up drive space. With Google Drive for desktop, your files are stored in the cloud instead of on your computer, and any changes you make are automatically synced to the cloud for quick, easy access anywhere you have an Internet connection.
Table of Contents
•	Installation 
o	System Requirements
•	Getting Started 
o	What are the features of Google Drive for Desktop?
o	How much storage do I have for my Drive files?
o	Making Files Available Offline
o	Where can I get more information?
Installation
1.	Download Google Drive for Mac or Windows. You must be logged into your Google account to see this page.
2.	Run the installation package.
3.	Log in to the portal with your ScarletMail email address and password.
4.	You'll then be prompted to enter your NetID and NetID Password.
5.	Follow the instructions and choose what you want to sync. 
On macOS, if you receive an error that says "Google Drive encountered a problem and has stopped," go to System Preferences > Security and Privacy > Allow Google Drive.
System Requirements
•	Windows: Windows 10 and up (64-bit only), Windows Server 2016 and up (64-bit only)
•	Mac: macOS Catalina 10.15.7 and up. For macOS 11 and lower, follow these steps.
Getting Started
Once Google Drive is installed, a folder called Google Drive will appear on the left in your Finder or File Explorer. This folder will contain both your personal Google Drive and any Team Drives you are part of. The only difference between these files and any other file on your computer is that they are not stored on your computer by default, and any changes you make to them will automatically sync with your cloud storage.
What are the features of Google Drive for Desktop?
With Drive, you can:
•	
o	Quickly see all your Google Drive files in Finder/Explorer (including Team Drives).
o	Browse and organize Google Drive files without downloading all of them to your computer.
o	Choose which files or folders you'd like to make available offline.
o	Open files in common apps like Microsoft Office and Adobe Photoshop.
How much storage do I have for my Drive files?
ScarletMail/ScarletApps accounts are limited to 30 gigabytes (GB).
Making Files Available Offline
By default, Google Drive does not store a copy of your files on your local computer. This means that if you do not have an Internet connection, you will not be able to access these files. In order to make your files accessible offline, right-click on a file or folder and select Available Offline under the Drive menu. Please note that doing so will store a copy on your computer, using up more of your hard drive space.
Where can I get more information?
To get started with Drive, visit the Drive Help Center. Please note that to see this page and install the new app, you must log in to Google with your ScarletMail email address and password.
" KB0012529 ScarletMail Google Drive on ScarletApps "
Google Drive is part of Rutgers’ ScarletApps suite and is available to all Faculty, Staff, Students, and Guests. Google Drive cannot be used for the storage of restricted data like files containing protected health information (PHI). The Google Drive service supports all Windows, macOS, Android, iOS, and Linux devices and has a full-featured web interface that can be used on other platforms. The Google Drive service is widely used in higher education, and files can be shared with anyone who has an email address.
Availability: All faculty, staff, students, and guests
Storage limit: ScarletMail/ScarletApps accounts will be limited to 30 gigabytes (GB) 
File size limit: 30 gigabytes (GB) 
File limit: None
Speed limits: 750 GB per day
Access methods: Windows Client, MacOS Client, Android App, Apple iOS App, Linux, web
Document versions: 100 revisions or 30 days (whichever is shorter)
PHI permitted: No
Integrated with Canvas: Yes
•	Content viewers must have an account: Yes
•	Instructors and viewers must add an appropriate email to Canvas settings: Yes
•	Content viewers must also use the same tenant: No
More information on using Google Drive can be found on Google's Drive help page.
" KB0016911 ScarletMail How to recover deleted files in Google Drive "
Instructions on how to restore deleted files in Google Drive can be found on Google's Help Page.
" KB0012610 ScarletMail Migrating ScarletMail/ScarletApps data to another account "
This procedure must be used exclusively on personally owned data. Data conducted as part of University business, or classified as Restricted or Critical ePHI under Rutgers Information Classification Policy 70.1.2 must not be transferred to any other non-Rutgers system. Doing so may represent a violation of the Federal HIPAA Privacy/Security rules, State Privacy Laws, and/or University policies. Please prepare your data accordingly prior to the migration procedure.
There are two different ways to migrate your ScarletMail information:
•	Google Transfer: Transfer your data from ScarletMail to a personal Gmail account.
•	Google Takeout: Download all your ScarletMail data to upload to another service.
Table of Contents
•	Google Transfer 
o	What can be transferred
o	How to transfer your data
•	Google Takeout 
o	How to download your data
•	Alternate download methods 
o	Files
o	Photos
o	Emails
o	Contacts
o	Calendars
•	Move files from your University Google Drive to another location 
o	Migrating to a drive on your computer
o	Migrate files to a different cloud service
Google Transfer
Let's you transfer your ScarletMail data listed below to a personal Gmail account. The original files stay in your school account. Any changes you make to the copied files do not affect the originals. 
What can be transferred
•	Emails (does not include contacts, chats, or tasks)
•	Documents that you own in Google Drive (except files in the "Google Photos" section of Drive)
•	Documents in My Drive (When the copy process is done, you'll be notified by email about any files in My Drive that weren't copied)
o	Note: A file in My Drive won't be copied if either of the following is true:
	You're a Viewer, not an Editor or Owner
	The owner has turned off download, print, and copy options for commenters and viewers
•	Photos, videos, and albums you own
How to transfer your data
1.	While logged into your ScarletMail account, go to Google's Transfer page.
2.	Enter the email address of the personal Google Account where you want to copy your content.
3.	Select Get code.
4.	On your personal Google Account, check your Gmail inbox for a confirmation email from Google.
5.	In the email, select Get confirmation code. A new tab will open with a code.
6.	On your ScarletMail account, go back to the "Transfer your content" page.
7.	Enter the code, then choose Verify.
8.	Select the content you'd like to copy, then select Start transfer.
9.	The copy process usually occurs within a few hours, but it can take up to a week. You'll receive an email once it is complete. 
10.	Verify that all data has been transferred correctly. 
11.	If the data is no longer needed in your ScarletMail account, delete it from there. 
12.	If you want to free up more storage space on your ScarletMail account, empty the trash in the relevant services on your ScarletMail account (Drive, Photos, etc). 
Note:
•	The copy process usually occurs within a few hours, but it can take up to a week.
•	Extremely large amounts of data being transferred may run into issues. You'll receive an email should the transfer fail. If this happens, you can try transferring multiple small amounts of data instead of one large transfer. 
•	Copied files might appear in batches on your personal Google Account during the copy process.
•	Content will be copied to a folder labeled with the original account name and the date the process was initiated.
•	When your files are finished copying, you'll get an email at your Gmail address.
•	More details on the transfer process can be found on Google's Help Page.
To download data from your ScarletMail account that is not included in the list above (contacts, calendar, etc.), follow the directions below to download it via Google Takeout. You can then upload the files to the programs of your choosing.
Google Takeout
Allows you to download all your ScarletMail data (files, email, contacts, calendar, photos, etc.) by following the steps below.
How to download your data
1.	While logged into your ScarletMail account, go to the Download your data page. Google products that have your data are automatically selected.
2.	Go through all available data and uncheck any you do not wish to download. For some sections, you may be able to edit the options to select only some data for that section, as well as the file format it is exported to.
3.	Click Next Step.
4.	Choose your preferred Delivery Method, Frequency, File Type, and Size. 
5.	Click Create Export.
6.	Once the export is complete, you'll receive an email with a link to its location, depending on the Delivery Method chosen. 
7.	Verify that all data has been downloaded correctly. 
8.	If the data is no longer needed in your ScarletMail account, delete it from there. 
9.	If you want to free up more storage space on your ScarletMail account, empty the trash in the relevant services on your ScarletMail account (Drive, Photos, etc). 
Note:
•	Depending on the amount of information in your account, the link to access your export may take a few minutes or several hours to be sent.
•	If you have a slow internet connection on your local device, you may try using the Computer Labs or the Virtual Labs, which may offer faster speeds. 
•	Extremely large amounts of data being downloaded may run into issues. If this happens, you can try downloading multiple small chunks of data instead of a single large download. 
•	Files will be downloaded in a variety of formats, e.g., DOC, PPTX, XLSX, JPG, PDF, MP4, JSON, or HTML formats.
•	More details on the download process can be found on Google's Help Page. 
Alternate download methods
Alternative methods to download the most common types of data from your ScarletMail account are listed below. 
Files
In order to migrate ScarletMail Docs to another service, you will need to download all of your docs to your local computer, then upload them to another service. Ensure you have a good internet speed on your local device. If you have a slow internet connection on your local device, you may try using the Computer Labs or the Virtual Labs as they may have a faster speed. 
To download your ScarletMail Docs, do the following:
1.	While logged into your ScarletMail account, go to Google Drive.
2.	Select all the files that you wish to download. You can hold the Ctrl key on your keyboard while clicking multiple files to select many files at once. Or after clicking a file, press Ctrl+A to select all files in your Drive. If you are using a Mac, use Cmd instead of Ctrl.
3.	Click the Menu icon in the top-right corner of the window to access More Actions.
4.	Click Download.
5.	Verify that all files have been downloaded correctly. 
6.	If the files are no longer needed in your ScarletMail account, delete them from there. 
7.	If you want to free up more storage space on your ScarletMail account, empty the trash in your Drive on your ScarletMail account.
This will download all of the files in your ScarletMail Drive to your local computer. From there, you can upload to another service like Dropbox. 
Photos
You can download photos or videos you select individually or in bulk to your local device, then upload them to another service. If you have a slow internet connection on your local device, you may try using the Computer Labs or the Virtual Labs, which may offer faster speeds. 
1.	On your computer, go to Google Photos.
2.	Select the check mark for the photos or videos you want to download.
3.	Click More Options (three dots) and then Download. 
4.	Verify that all photos have been downloaded correctly. 
5.	If the photos/videos are no longer needed in your ScarletMail account, delete them from there. 
6.	If you want to free up more storage space on your ScarletMail account, empty the trash in Photos on your ScarletMail account.
You can also share your photos and videos with another Google account you own. When accepting the share on the other account, you can choose to save the photos there as well. 
1.	On your computer, go to Google Photos.
2.	Sign in with your Google Account.
3.	Click Settings > Partner sharing > Get started.
4.	Enter or select an email address for another Google Account you own.
5.	Select which photos to add to your shared account. 
o	All photos: You can share all photos.
o	Photos of specific people: You can select one or more face groups to share. Photos that match any of the selected face groups will be shared. Learn more about filtering by face groups.
o	Only show photos since this day: Any photos whose dates come after the selected date will be shared. Learn more about filtering by date.
6.	Click Next.
7.	Click Send invitation.
8.	On your computer, open Google Photos again.
9.	Sign in with the Google Account that you shared to.
10.	At the top left, click Sharing.
11.	Click the invitation you want to accept. Then, click Accept.
12.	At the top, click Settings > Partner sharing.
13.	Below Partner sharing, click on Save to Account to see options.
14.	Click Save. 
o	All photos: Any photos shared by partners will be saved.
o	Photos of selected people: Select from your face groups. When Google Photos recognizes any of those face groups from your partner’s photos, it’ll save the photos automatically.
15.	Click Done.
16.	Verify that all photos have been transferred correctly. 
17.	If the photos/videos are no longer needed in your ScarletMail account, delete them from there. 
18.	If you want to free up more storage space on your ScarletMail account, empty the trash in Photos on your ScarletMail account.
It is important to remove the partner sharing once all photos have been transferred correctly.
1.	Click Settings > Partner Sharing.
2.	Click Remove Partner.
3.	Click Remove.
More information can be found on Google's Partner Sharing page. 
Emails
In order to migrate your ScarletMail email to another email service, you will need to configure an email program to access both your personal email account and your ScarletMail account.
For instructions on setting up an email program for your personal email account, please refer to your email provider's documentation.
After you have set up an email program for your personal email,l you will need to configure the program to connect to the ScarletMail account. The following documentation to help you with this procedure is listed below:
•	Setting up Outlook for ScarletMail
•	Setting up Thunderbird for ScarletMail
•	Setting up Windows Mail for ScarletMail
•	Setting up Mac Mail for ScarletMail
Now, you can start moving messages from your ScarletMail account to your personal email account. In many instances, you can simply click and drag messages from one account to another. You can also select multiple messages at once by holding the Control key and selecting individual messages or simply by holding down the Control and the A key (or the Command and the A key on Macintosh) to select all of the messages in the folder. 
If you want to free up more storage space on your ScarletMail account, delete the transferred emails and empty the trash in Gmail on your ScarletMail account.
Contacts
To migrate ScarletMail Contacts to another service, you will need to export your contacts to a CSV file. A CSV file is simply a text file with your contacts separated by commas. This type of file is very simple to import into another email reading program.
To export your contacts, do the following:
1.	While logged into your ScarletMail account, go to Google Contacts.
2.	Select one of the following:
o	A single contact: Check the box next to the contact name.
o	Multiple contacts: Check the boxes next to all the contacts you want to export.
o	All contacts: Check the box next to any contact, then in the top left, click Selection Actions, then All.
3.	In the top-left corner, click More actions, then Export.
4.	To back up your contacts, select CSV.
5.	To save your file, click Export.
This will create a file that can be imported into another email program or address book system.
Calendars
To migrate ScarletMail Calendars to another service, you will need to export your calendars in the ICS format. ICS is a standard format that most other calendar systems will understand.
To export your calendar,s do the following:
1.	While logged into your ScarletMail account, go to Google Calendar. Note: You can't export your calendar from the Google Calendar app.
2.	In the top right, click the Gear icon, then Settings.
3.	In the menu on the left, click Import & export.
4.	Under “Export," click Export.
5.	A ZIP file will download to your computer.
6.	If you open the ZIP file, you'll find individual ICS files for each of your calendars.
This will create a file that can be imported into another email program or address book system.
Move files from your University Google Drive to another location
Migrating to a drive on your computer
You can migrate your files to a drive attached to your computer by utilizing Google Takeout. 
Migrate files to a different cloud service
First, download the files using Google Takeout, then upload them to your storage option of choice. If you are uploading files to Box, you can find instructions in Box's Help Center. If you are uploading files to Microsoft OneDrive, instructions are available on Microsoft's Support Page. 
Information regarding storage options available to Rutgers Faculty, Staff, and Students is in Box and Microsoft OneDrive. Learn more about these on the Rutgers cloud storage website.
" KB0016727 ScarletMail Reducing ScarletMail/ScarletApps storage "
What specific steps should I take to reduce my storage?
1.	Confirm how much storage you’re using on the Google storage overview page. 
2.	Clean up your ScarletApps account. 
o	Drive: Review your Drive storage and delete large or unnecessary files. After deleting, make sure to empty your trash folder since it still counts towards your storage until they are permanently deleted. 
o	Photos: Review your Photos Storage. 
	Delete large or unnecessary photos and videos. After deleting, make sure to empty your trash since it still counts towards your storage until they are permanently deleted. 
	You can also reduce the size of your photos and videos by storing them at a slightly reduced quality. To do this, go to the Photos Settings page and select Storage Saver. 
o	Mail: Review your Gmail and delete unnecessary emails. After deleting, make sure to empty your trash folder, since it still counts towards your storage until it is permanently deleted. 
3.	Transfer or download your data. 
o	Google Transfer lets you transfer your data from ScarletMail to a personal Gmail account.
o	Google Takeout lets you download your ScarletMail data to be uploaded to another service.
o	For more information and instructions on transferring or downloading your data, see the article on migrating ScarletMail data to another account.
4.	Review other storage solutions.
o	University data should be stored in accordance with Departmental IT guidance. Some options include Box for Rutgers or Microsoft Teams (part of Rutgers Connect, the university's implementation of Microsoft 365).
o	If you have extremely large storage needs due to research projects, videos, or other reasons, please contact the IT staff at the department sponsoring the research or the OIT Help Desk to explore other storage options.
o	Please review the Rutgers Acceptable Use Policy for Information Technology Resources and make sure you’re storing data in accordance with our policies.
For further assistance
If you have specific questions or need assistance, please contact your department’s IT staff, if applicable, or the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0012658 ScarletMail ScarletMail account audits "
Who can have a ScarletMail account?
According to the Office of Information Technology guidelines, only the following classes of people are eligible to have ScarletMail accounts:
•	Current employees of Rutgers University
•	Current students 
•	Alumni
•	Retirees
•	Professor Emeritus
•	Guests: individuals who are conducting University business and are directly associated with the University, but are not officially on the University's payroll. Examples of guests include visiting professors/scholars, members of auxiliary groups, and others who are working on University business or affiliated with the University.
The following groups of people are not automatically eligible for ScarletMail accounts:
•	Prior students who have withdrawn from all courses
•	Employees of other organizations who are performing work at Rutgers
Any of the above may be eligible for a guest account if a Rutgers department or division is willing to sponsor them. Please see the Guest Account page for further information.
Recently re-hired employees who have not yet been added to the RIAS payroll system, and thereby given a Faculty or Staff role, may have their department's payroll person use the Early Employee NetID form to request an early role.
How can I keep my ScarletMail account?
We determine which accounts should be closed by comparing ScarletMail usernames with the active roles (e.g. Student or Alumni) of usernames listed in the University's Open Registry (OR) service, which is used as the basis for the Rutgers Online Directory. The OR may have some information that needs to be corrected.
If you have received an account closure notice and you believe that this is in error, please find the group you belong to in the appropriate subsection below (Current Employees, Guests, Students, Others) and follow the instructions there.
Current Employees
You may not be listed in OR as a current employee. To check this, go to the People Search tool and search for your name. Review each result if you get more than one. If your name does not appear, contact your department's Human Resources person.
When your entry appears, review the information there. If it is incorrect, contact your department's Human Resources person.
If your information is correct, or when your department's Human Resources person has corrected your record, your department’s Rutgers Delegated Administrator can verify that your account is no longer subject to closure.
Students
You may not be listed in the OR as a current student. To check this, go to the People Search tool and search for your name. Review each result if you get more than one. If your name does not appear, please inquire about your registration via One Stop.
When your entry appears, review the information there. If it is incorrect, please inquire about your registration via One Stop.
Guests
Guests will have to determine with their sponsor if Rutgers Connect, ScarletMail, or even no Rutgers email account (for example, using a home institution’s email service) is appropriate for their needs.
If you are affiliated with Rutgers but not employed full-time, you may request a guest account. Have a sponsor in the department you are working with, go to the Guest Account site and submit a request for you; it will be sent to our Accounts Office for processing. 
Every year, you must renew your guest account. You will be notified when it is time to renew your account (30 days prior to the account's expiration). 
Your Rutgers Delegated Administrator can assist your sponsor in submitting a Guest Account request and, if necessary, in creating your ScarletMail account.
Others
If you do not fit into any of the above categories, you may want to try contacting a department at Rutgers related to the work you do and ask if they would be willing to sponsor a Guest account for you.
We have no mechanism for people no longer associated with Rutgers to pay a fee and thus keep their accounts. These people should be able to pay for a full account on any number of Internet Service Providers (ISPs) or obtain a free e-mail account from various web services. Rutgers cannot recommend one such group over another.
What should I do before the account is closed?
If you will be losing access to your ScarletMail account, you may want to take the following steps.
•	Notify your regular correspondents, mailing lists, etc., about your change of address. We cannot forward mail from a deleted account to another address.
•	You will lose access to your data once your account is closed, so you will want to save your Google Drive files, emails, and contacts to another location. Review the information on how to migrate data from ScarletMail.
What happens after the account is closed?
After your account is closed, you will lose access to your ScarletMail account. When an account is closed, any e-mail addressed to such an account will be returned to the sender ("bounced") with an automatic message of the type "No such user at this site".
Approximately 4 weeks after your account is closed, your ScarletMail account will be deleted.
I need further assistance!
If you have questions about any of the above, you can email help@oit.rutgers.edu or contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0012682 ScarletMail Setting up an iOS device for ScarletMail "
Before attempting to configure your iOS device for ScarletMail, be sure you have activated your ScarletMail account.  
If you are a student under 18 years old, you will be unable to use third-party apps or set up ScarletMail on any mail client. You will need to use a web browser to access your account. 
1.	On the iOS device, go to Settings.
2.	Click Mail > Accounts > Add Account > Google. 
3.	You will be directed to the Google sign-in. Enter your ScarletMail address formatted as netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu.
4.	Click Next.
5.	You will be redirected to Rutgers' Central Authentication Service (CAS). Enter your NetID and NetID Password.
6.	Click Login.
7.	Select which services you would like to sync with your ScarletMail and click Save. You can now access your ScarletMail by using the Mail app on your device.
" KB0012669 ScarletMail Setting up Android for ScarletMail "
Before attempting to configure Android for ScarletMail, be sure you have activated your ScarletMail account. 
If you are a student under 18 years old, you will be unable to use third-party apps or set up ScarletMail on any mail client. You will need to use a web browser to access your account. 
1.	Open the Settings app for your device. 
2.	Click on Accounts.
3.	Choose Add account.
4.	Choose Google.
5.	Type your ScarletMail email address in the format of netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu and then tap Next.
6.	You will be prompted with a message from Google stating that your account is managed by Rutgers. Click Accept.
7.	Type in your NetID and NetID password, and then select LOGIN.
8.	You can now access your ScarletMail by using the Gmail app on your device.
 
" KB0012680 ScarletMail Setting up Mac Mail for ScarletMail "
Before attempting to configure Mac Mail for ScarletMail, be sure you have activated your ScarletMail account.  
If you are a student under 18 years old, you will be unable to use third-party apps or set up ScarletMail on any mail client. You will need to use a web browser to access your account. 
1.	On the macOS device, select the Mail app from the Dock. 
o	If it has been removed from the dock, you can access it by selecting the Finder > Applications > Mail.
2.	Once Mail opens, you will see a prompt to “Choose a mail account provider...”. Select Google. If you do not see the prompt, select Mail > Add Account >  Google > Continue.
3.	You will see a Google sign-in screen. Enter your email formatted as netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu
4.	Click Next.
5.	You will be redirected to Rutgers Central Authentication Service (CAS). Enter your NetID and NetID Password. 
6.	Click Login.
7.	Select which features you would like to sync from your ScarletMail to your Mac, then select Done.
8.	You will now have access to your ScarletMail from your Mail app.
" KB0012675 ScarletMail Setting up Outlook on Mac for ScarletMail "
Before attempting to configure Outlook for ScarletMail, be sure you have activated your ScarletMail account. 
If you are a student under 18 years old, you will be unable to use third-party apps or set up ScarletMail on any mail client. You will need to use a web browser to access your account. 
1.	Open the Microsoft Outlook application on your Mac.
2.	On the top toolbar, go to the Tools dropdown menu, then click Accounts. 
3.	Click the + icon, then Add Account. 
4.	Enter your ScarletMail email in the format of netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu, then click Continue.
5.	Click Continue again. 
6.	A new window will open and prompt you to sign in to your account. 
7.	Log in with your NetID and NetID password. 
8.	Select Allow to grant Outlook access to your ScarletMail account. 
9.	If prompted, allow the browser to open and redirect you back to Microsoft Outlook. 
10.	You'll see a confirmation that your account has been added. Click Done to finish the setup. 
" KB0012677 ScarletMail Setting up Outlook on Windows for ScarletMail "
Before attempting to configure Outlook for ScarletMail, be sure you have activated your ScarletMail account.  
If you are a student under 18 years old, you will be unable to use third-party apps or set up ScarletMail on any mail client. You will need to use a web browser to access your account. 
1.	Open up Outlook on your device. 
2.	Select File on the toolbar. 
3.	Click Add Account. 
4.	Enter your ScarletMail email formatted as netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu, then click Connect. 
5.	Log in with your NetID and NetID password.
6.	Review the permissions and allow Microsoft to Read and Write to your Gmail account by selecting the appropriate checkbox and clicking Continue. 
7.	You'll get a confirmation in Outlook that your account has been added. Click Done. 
 
" KB0012679 ScarletMail Setting up ScarletMail to use your official Rutgers email address "
When a ScarletMail account is created, the default email address the account will send mail from is in the format netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu. This is referred to as your account's Primary Address. You may prefer to change your primary address to a personalized email address, for example: john.doe@rutgers.edu. Your ScarletMail account can only be configured for one primary address at a time. You can update this address at any time; however, you can only send email from your primary address.
To change your primary address for ScarletMail, please follow the directions below. Changes may take up to 2 hours to take effect.
1.	Go to the NetID Management page and click on Manage Email Addresses.
2.	Log in with your NetID and NetID password.
3.	Scroll down to the Rutgers ScarletMail (Gmail) Account Information section and click the edit (red pencil) icon.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click the dropdown, and your available personalized email addresses will be shown. Choose a new primary Email Address from the drop-down box.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Click Update.
6.	ScarletMail will automatically update your default address and automatically start sending mail from the primary address you selected. 
If you would like confirmation on what your ScarletMail sign-in information is, please go to the NetID Management page and click on Manage Email Addresses. Your sign-in information can be found in the Rutgers ScarletMail (Gmail) Account Information section.
" KB0012683 ScarletMail Setting up Thunderbird for ScarletMail "
Before attempting to configure Thunderbird for ScarletMail, be sure you have activated your ScarletMail account.  
If you are a student under 18 years old, you will be unable to use third-party apps or set up ScarletMail on any mail client. You will need to use a web browser to access your account. 
1.	Open Up Thunderbird. Select Local Folders, and under Set Up Another Account, click on Email.
2.	Fill out the required information using the guidelines below: 
o	Your Name: Enter your first and last name as it should appear in the From line of an email message
o	Email Address: Enter your ScarletMail email address formatted as netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu
o	Password: Leave blank
o	Remember password: This is checked off by default. If you do not want Thunderbird to remember your password, you can uncheck this box. If the box is unchecked, you will be asked to enter your password whenever you check your email.
3.	Click Continue, and Thunderbird will look up the configuration for your ScarletMail account.
4.	Select the IMAP option. 
5.	Click Done.
6.	A "Sign in with Google" window will appear with your ScarletMail address pre-populated. Click Next.
7.	You'll then be prompted to log in with your NetID and NetID password. 
8.	Click Allow to grant access to your account from Thunderbird. 
9.	After logging in, click Finish in Thunderbird. 
" KB0012681 ScarletMail Setting up Windows Mail for ScarletMail "
Before attempting to configure Windows for ScarletMail, be sure you have activated your ScarletMail account.  
If you are a student under 18 years old, you will be unable to use third-party apps or set up ScarletMail on any mail client. You will need to use a web browser to access your account. 
1.	On your Windows 10 device, click or tap on the Start Menu in the bottom right-hand corner.
2.	Select the Mail app icon from the Start menu. If you do not see a pinned Mail icon, you can type Mail in the box marked "Type here to search".
3.	Once the Mail app opens, you will be prompted to add an account. If the prompt does not appear, you can select Accounts on the left side of the screen and then Add Account on the right side of the screen.
4.	Select Google from the list.
5.	On the page to connect a Google account, enter your ScarletMail address in the format netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu and select Next.
6.	Enter your NetID and NetID Password. Tap Login.
7.	You will be prompted to allow Windows to access your ScarletMail account. Select Allow.
8.	You will be prompted to allow Windows to remember your ScarletMail login information. You may choose to accept this by selecting Yes, or deny this by selecting Skip.
9.	You will be prompted to enter the name you wish to use as the “From” field when sending email from the Mail app. Type your name and select Done.
10.	You can now access your ScarletMail inbox from the Mail app.
" KB0012694 ScarletMail Spam and Virus Filtering at Rutgers "
Rutgers Connect
Rutgers Connect is a Microsoft product that provides its own spam filtering service.
Learn more about the Junk Email Filter (for the Microsoft Outlook application), or learn about Junk email and phishing (for Outlook on the web).
ScarletMail
ScarletMail is a Google Gmail system. Spam blocking and filtering is controlled by Google and not OIT.
For information about Spam Filtering with ScarletMail, please read Google's overview of Gmail's spam filter.
What should I do if legitimate emails are being blocked by the University's Spam or Antivirus Systems?
If you find that delivery of legitimate mail is being affected by the filters, please contact the OIT Help Desk.
When contacting the OIT Help Desk, please have as much information about the message being blocked as possible. Some information may include:
•	Address of the sender of the blocked email message
•	The time the message that was blocked was sent
•	The complete address to which the blocked message was sent
•	A copy of any error messages or notifications that the sender of the message received.
If you receive a phishing scam or other malicious email, please forward the full email to abuse@rutgers.edu.
Find more information about reporting abuse here.
" KB0013041 ScarletMail FAQ Can an RBHS affiliate obtain a ScarletMail? "
If you are an affiliate of the Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences department your default email account will be Connect (Office 365). This is because those with an active RBHS role are typically flagged in our systems as having access to Protected Health Information (PHI). Connect is not open to third-party applications and is designed by Rutgers to keep protected health information secure.
RBHS affiliates can obtain a ScarletMail but are only allowed to set a delivery address that is an RBHS email account (Connect). They are only allowed to use their alias or RBHS email account as an official Rutgers email address and are not permitted to forward their RBHS email to another account (such as ScarletMail).
Both your Connect and ScarletMail can be setup during your NetID activation process or through Service Activation. 
" KB0014577 ScarletMail FAQ Can I change the display name on my ScarletMail? "
You can change your display name (your First and Last Name) that appears when you send from your ScarletMail. When it is first activated, ScarletMail will pull your First and Last name from what Rutgers has on file. However, it will not update your display name on ScarletMail if your name at Rutgers changes for any reason. You may also wish to add a distinguishing title, such as Dr., to your name, change your First name to a nickname, or your Last name if you are married. If you use Gmail's web interface, you may update your name by following the instructions below. If you use a different application or interface to send from your ScarletMail, you will have to review the documentation provided by that application's vendor. 
1.	Go to Gmail and enter your ScarletMail Email Address: netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu. Click Next.
2.	Enter your Rutgers NetID and password. Click Login.
3.	In the top right, click the Gear Icon to get to Settings, and then click See all settings.
4.	Click the Accounts and Import or Accounts tab.
5.	Under Send mail as, click edit info.
6.	Under Name, enter the name you want to show when you send messages.
7.	At the bottom, click Save Changes.
 
" KB0013032 ScarletMail FAQ Can I request my ScarletMail account be removed? "
While registered as a Student, you cannot request that your ScarletMail account be deleted. You must have a ScarletMail account as it is where official Rutgers emails are guaranteed to be received. 
If you are an Alumni or non-student Faculty/Staff, you may request that your account be deleted by submitting the ScarletMail self-deletion request form.
" KB0013038 ScarletMail FAQ Can I sign into my ScarletMail and personal Gmail account at the same time? "
Yes, multiple sign-ins with the same browser needs to be enabled though. This can be done using the multiple sign-in settings page.
" KB0013036 ScarletMail FAQ "Can my ScarletMail account use my name, not my NetID?" "
ScarletMail accounts are required to use the NetID as the account name, so it is not possible. However, you can set up a personalized email address, or mail alias, in the form of “firstname.lastname@rutgers.edu”, and set ScarletMail (or most preferred mail programs) to send using that address in the From line, rather than the netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu address.
 Visit the article on setting up ScarletMail to use your official Rutgers email address for more details. 
" KB0013035 ScarletMail FAQ How can I forward my ScarletMail mail to my non-Rutgers email account? "
We do not recommend doing this. Fall and Spring Session Students are required to have ScarletMail accounts so that they can receive official messages from Rutgers. We cannot guarantee delivery of official Rutgers email to non-Rutgers accounts.
In addition per University Policy 70.1.6, all email and calendaring used to conduct University Business must be created, stored, processed, and transmitted using the official University Email and Calendaring systems; where University Business is defined as "work performed as part of an employee’s job responsibilities, daily work, and duties performed on behalf of the University by faculty, staff, student workers, guests, and other persons." Ensure that none of your ScarletMail emails fall within this definition if you set up forwarding. 
The recommended way of forwarding to an external account is using the auto-forward feature built into Gmail. Follow Google's guide on how to automatically forward Gmail messages to another account. It is highly recommended that during the setup process, you select to keep a copy of the email on ScarletMail. You may prefer to read the copies on the external account, but if a message fails to be delivered there, this will allow you to be able to find the copy on the ScarletMail account. 
Please make sure to log into your ScarletMail account every so often to delete any unneeded duplicate messages.
 
" KB0013040 ScarletMail FAQ How can I organize the emails in ScarletMail? "
Gmail is different from regular email services in that it does not use a folder system for organizing emails. Instead, it uses Filters and Labels. For more information, visit Google's support page on how to organize and find emails. There you will find information on Filters, Labels, Storage, and Archiving.
" KB0013031 ScarletMail FAQ How do I access my ScarletMail account and Google Workspace services? "
Make sure you have already activated your ScarletMail account on the Services Activation page.
Most alternate email clients support logging into ScarletMail similarly to any other email. For detailed instructions on setting up your preferred email client, refer to the list of available desktop clients. 
Log in to ScarletMail via a web browser
1.	Go to Gmail and login with your netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu address.
2.	It will then prompt you to log in with your NetID and NetID password. 
What if I’m already logged in with my personal account?
1.	Go to Gmail. 
2.	In the top right corner, click the circle that has your initial or profile picture. 
3.	At the top of the pop-up window, it will list the account you are currently logged into. If it does not list your ScarletMail address, continue with the instructions below. 
4.	Click Add account. 

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	On the login page, enter your netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu address.
6.	It will then prompt you to log in with your NetID and NetID password. 
7.	When it prompts you to verify that the account is yours, click Continue. 
8.	You'll then be in your ScarletMail account. 
9.	To confirm, in the top right of the page, click the circle that has your initial or profile picture. At the top of the pop-up window, it will list the account you are currently logged into. 

Error! Filename not specified.
To switch between your personal Google Account and ScarletMail
1.	On any Google service's page, in the top right corner, click the circle that has your initial or profile picture. 
2.	At the top of the pop-up window, it will list the account you are currently logged into. 
3.	To switch, select another account from the list below. 
" KB0013033 ScarletMail FAQ How do I configure my mail client for ScarletMail? "
If you are a student under 18 years old, you cannot use third party apps or setup ScarletMail on any mail client. You will need to use the web browser to access your account. Once you turn 18, your account will automatically be granted full functionality. 
View the instructions below on how to set up your desktop client for ScarletMail:
•	Outlook on Mac
•	Outlook on Windows
•	Mac
•	Windows
•	Thunderbird
•	iOS
•	Android
For more information on configuring your client/device and troubleshooting steps, visit the IMAP Google support page.
 
" KB0013034 ScarletMail FAQ How do I send email with ScarletMail using my email alias? "
You may only change the “From:” address of your email to send from your official Rutgers email address.
For instructions, visit the article on setting up ScarletMail to use your official Rutgers email address. 
" KB0013030 ScarletMail FAQ How long can I keep my ScarletMail account after I leave Rutgers? "
Only Alumni, Retirees, and Professor Emeritus are eligible to keep their ScarletMail/ScarletApps account after leaving the University. People who leave Rutgers without formally graduating, even if only for one semester, are subject to losing their accounts.
These accounts are subject to regular audits to check if it is still actively being used. If you are in one of these groups and your account is deemed inactive, you will be contacted to confirm that you are still using the account. It will remain active so long as you respond to these inquiries in a timely fashion. If there is no response, the account will be closed, and all data will be permanently deleted. 
Alumni who no longer want their ScarletMail accounts should complete the ScarletMail self-deletion request form. Closing a ScarletMail account will also remove access to other ScarletApps services. There is no way to remove a single ScarletApps service.
More information on who is eligible can be found on the ScarletMail account audit article. 
" KB0013043 ScarletMail FAQ I deleted my email on ScarletMail. Can it be retrieved? "
If you delete a message or document, it will be placed in your Trash folder for 30 days. After 30 days, it will be deleted permanently.
However, once you click Empty Trash now or Delete Forever the deleted message can no longer be retrieved. 
OIT does not have access to restore deleted data. 
Visit Google's site for more information on deleting messages. 
" KB0013042 ScarletMail FAQ Maximum Attachment Size in ScarletMail "
You can send up to 25 MB in attachments. If you have more than one attachment, they cannot add up to more than 25 MB. 
If your file is greater than 25 MB, Gmail automatically adds a Google Drive link in the email instead of including it as an attachment. 
For more detailed instructions, visit the Google Help article on how to send attachments with your Gmail message.
When you attach a Google Drive file to a message, Gmail checks to see if your recipients have access to the file. If they don't, you'll be prompted to change the sharing settings of the file before you send your message.
For more detailed instructions, refer to the Google Help article on sharing settings for Google Drive files. 
" KB0016843 ScarletMail FAQ ScarletMail/ScarletApps storage limits FAQ "
Table of Contents
•	Why is Rutgers instituting a 30GB limit for ScarletMail/ScarletApps?
•	When does the 30GB limit take effect?
•	What are the cloud storage options at Rutgers?
•	Where can I see how much storage I am using?
•	How can I reduce my ScarletMail/ScarletApps data?
•	How can I migrate my ScarletMail/ScarletApps information to another account?
•	What will happen if my storage amount still exceeds the 30GB limit on June 18, 2024?
•	What will happen when an account reaches the 30GB limit?
•	Will I be able to keep my ScarletMail/ScarletApps account after leaving the University?
•	What happens to ScarletMail/ScarletApps accounts that haven’t been actively used?
Why is Rutgers instituting a 30GB limit for ScarletMail/ScarletApps?
Google announced storage limits for Google Workspace for Education (known as ScarletMail/ScarletApps at Rutgers)—an end to unlimited storage for educational institutions. In response to this change, IT leaders and professionals from departments across Rutgers developed a plan to address the new Google limits. As part of this plan, Rutgers is seeking to ensure an equitable use of Google storage at Rutgers with the 30GB limit. Long-dormant ScarletApps/ScarletMail accounts are being closed, and individuals using in excess of the 30GB limit were contacted, and their storage under the limit was reduced. 
When does the 30GB limit take effect?
The new 30GB limit went into effect on June 18, 2024.
What are the cloud storage options at Rutgers?
Along with ScarletApps (Google Drive), the storage options available to Rutgers Faculty, Staff, and Students, are Box and Microsoft OneDrive. Learn more about these on the Rutgers cloud storage website.
Where can I see how much storage I am using?
Log into the Google storage overview page with your ScarletMail account to view your current storage amount. 
How can I reduce my ScarletMail/ScarletApps data?
Your storage can be reduced by deleting large and unnecessary emails, files and photos, You may also transfer or download your data to another location. More information can be found on the Reducing ScarletMail/ScarletApps storage article.
How can I migrate my ScarletMail/ScarletApps information to another account?
Data from your account can be transferred to a personal Gmail account or downloaded so that it can be uploaded to another service. Google provides two tools for this, Google Transfer and Google Takeout. More information and instructions can be found in the Migrating ScarletMail data to another account article. 
What will happen if my storage amount still exceeds the 30GB limit on June 18, 2024?
Accounts that have not reduced their storage under 30GB when the limit took effect on June 18, 2024, will have reduced functionality. You can still sign into and access your account, view and download your files, and send and receive emails. However, you will be unable to do the following:
•	Upload new files or images to Google Drive.
•	Create new files in collaborative content creation apps like Google Docs, Sheets, Slides, Drawings, Forms, and Jamboard. Until you reduce your storage usage, nobody can edit or copy your affected files or submit forms owned by you.
•	Back up any photos and videos to Google Photos.
•	Record new meetings in Google Meet.
If you are a teacher in a Google Classroom, you will be unable to:
•	Create assignments with new files that they haven't yet uploaded or been created.
•	Export grades to Google Sheets.
•	Have students submit assignments with file attachments.
If you are a student in a Google Classroom, you will be unable to:
•	Access files in Assignments that prompt you to make a copy.
What will happen when an account reaches the 30GB limit?
When your account reaches the 30GB limit after June 18, 2024, it will have reduced functionality. You can still sign into and access your account, view and download your files, and send and receive emails. However, you will be unable to do the following:
•	Upload new files or images to Google Drive.
•	Create new files in collaborative content creation apps like Google Docs, Sheets, Slides, Drawings, Forms, and Jamboard. Until you reduce your storage usage, nobody can edit or copy your affected files or submit forms owned by you.
•	Back up any photos and videos to Google Photos.
•	Record new meetings in Google Meet.
If you are a teacher in a Google Classroom, you will be unable to:
•	Create assignments with new files that they haven't yet uploaded or been created.
•	Export grades to Google Sheets.
•	Have students submit assignments with file attachments.
If you are a student in a Google Classroom, you will be unable to:
•	Access files in Assignments that prompt you to make a copy.
Will I be able to keep my ScarletMail/ScarletApps account after leaving the University?
Only Alumni, Retirees, and Professor Emeritus are eligible to keep their ScarletMail/ScarletApps account after leaving the University. These accounts are subject to regular audits to check if they are still being used. If you are in one of these groups and your account is deemed inactive, you will be contacted to confirm that you are still using the account. It will remain active as long as you respond to these inquiries promptly. If there is no response, the account will be closed, and all data will be permanently deleted. 
Current Faculty, Staff, Students, and select University Guests are eligible to have a ScarletMail/ScarletApps account only while at the University.
More information on who is eligible can be found on the ScarletMail account audit article. 
What happens to ScarletMail/ScarletApps accounts that haven’t been actively used?
While at the University, your account will remain even if it is not actively being used.
Only Alumni, Retirees, and Professor Emeritus are eligible to keep their ScarletMail/ScarletApps account after leaving the University. These accounts are subject to regular audits to check if they are still being used. If you are in one of these groups and your account is deemed inactive, you will be contacted to confirm that you are still using the account. It will remain active as long as you respond to these inquiries promptly. If there is no response, the account will be closed, and all data will be permanently deleted. 
" KB0013028 ScarletMail FAQ What email options do students have? "
ScarletMail is the official email service for Rutgers Students. Students in schools that handle protected health information (PHI) will be granted Rutgers Connect accounts to be used as their primary email account. Departments may provide additional email accounts to students if needed. 
" KB0013037 ScarletMail FAQ What if a student already has a personal Gmail account? "
Students can continue to use their personal Gmail account. A ScarletMail account is a separate account that does not affect existing Gmail accounts. The advantage of the Google Workspace for Education account is that each person has a Google account in an ad-free environment that maintains your Rutgers identity through your email address.
The difference is mostly on the look and feel of the applications. Behind the scenes, Google also delegates control of Rutgers Google Apps and user accounts to Rutgers system administrators.
" KB0013029 ScarletMail FAQ What is my ScarletMail email address? "
Your ScarletMail email address is in the format of netid@scarletmail.rutgers.edu. It is recommended that you create and use an email alias (e.g. first.last@rutgers.edu). You can manage your delivery email addresses (where you want your email delivered) and your aliases (the address that you give people to use to contact you) by going to the NetID Management page and clicking on Manage Email Addresses. 
" KB0013056 Security Keys FAQ How do I purchase a security key for Duo? "
You can purchase a security key on the Yubico website
" KB0013058 Security Keys FAQ How do I use a security key to login with Duo? "
When prompted to authenticate with two-step login, select Other Options and select Use security key. Then, insert and tap your key as prompted to log in.
" KB0013055 Security Keys FAQ What are the security key requirements for Duo? "
Refer to Duo's guidelines on Security Key requirements. 
" KB0013053 Security Keys FAQ What is a U2F security key? "
A security key plugs into your USB port, and when tapped or when the button is pressed, it sends a signed response back to Duo to validate your login.
" KB0013054 Security Keys FAQ What type of U2F security key do you recommend for Duo?
It's suggested to use FIDO2 or YubiKey 5 series.
KB0015231 ServiceNow ITSM Services Handling approvals in Rutgers IT Help "
As part of a Rutgers IT Help service request, your direct or indirect reports may request your approval as part of items ordered from the catalog. Please review the request and approve or deny based on your organization's procedures. We recommend leaving a comment anytime you deny an approval, so more information is available to the requester and IT team. Please note due to licensing constraints, once completed, you will no longer be able to view the approval or requested item; however, the details are documented in the system for record keeping.
Reviewing and approving via email
1.	If your approval is requested, you will receive: 
o	an email from Rutgers IT Help which will include some initial information,
o	the option to approve/reject via email,
o	the option to approve via the system,
o	and a link to view the item details.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Clicking on the Requested Item Link will bring you to a page showing the requester's submission and any comments.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Clicking the Approval Request Link in the email provides the option to approve, reject, and leave a comment. To complete the request, leave a note in the Comment box if desired, then click Approve or Reject in the top right corner. The blue arrow below the Description shows a subset of the item details in lieu of visiting the full requested item details page.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Once approved or rejected, you may close the window.
Reviewing and approving via the Rutgers IT Help portal
1.	Navigate to the Rutgers IT Help portal. Log in if you are not already, then click Approvals in the heading which has an icon for the number of pending approvals. You may select an individual approval or View all approvals.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	The approval request will display the item details alongside the approval actions. Click Approve or Reject to complete the request. Note that you cannot leave a comment via the portal approval form.

     Error! Filename not specified.
Approval reminders and cancellation
A reminder will be sent for approvals pending more than seven days, and for each successive interval thereafter.  Approvals that are pending longer than thirty days will be cancelled by the system, along with a notification to the requester in case the item needs to be resubmitted.
" KB0019308 ServiceNow ITSM Services How to create filters in ServiceNow "
In ServiceNow, we can create filters. A filter can restrict which records appear in a list by specifying a set of conditions each record must meet to be included. 
Some filters have already been created for you under Application Navigator. For example, under Incidents, there are Assigned to me and Assigned to my groups. If you click Show/hide filter, you can see the set of conditions that run when the filter opens. If you are having trouble creating your own filter, it is good practice to review the conditions of existing filters to understand where to start.
To create a filter, you can start with an existing filter and modify its set of conditions.
Error! Filename not specified.
In the image above, this is the general Assigned to me filter. The incident must be Active and assigned to Benjamin Kelder for it to appear in this filter. You can edit, add, or delete conditions. Once you edit a filter, you can click Run to verify that it works as expected. Once you are satisfied with your new filter, click Save and rename it. Also, you can click and drag the last breadcrumb into your Favorites to use it immediately.
Here are some links to get you started:
•	Saved Filters
•	OR Conditions
•	Add Related List Conditions
" KB0013608 ServiceNow ITSM Services How to share Rutgers IT Help (ServiceNow) knowledge articles KB0010843 ServiceNow ITSM Services ITSM Knowledge Base style guide "
The ITSM knowledge base content should provide clear, accessible advice for members of the Rutgers community. Follow these guidelines for formatting when developing knowledge base content.
Table of Contents
•	Guidelines
•	Font Formatting 
•	Titles
•	Commands, menus, and UI elements
•	Procedures and sequences
•	Lists
•	Error messages
•	Key names and keyboard sequences
•	Links
•	Placeholder text
•	Images/Screenshots 
o	Alt Text
•	Tables  
o	Header
o	Caption
Guidelines
Here are some key guidelines:
•	Write clear, accurate, and up-to-date content.
•	Know your audience. In particular, whether you’re writing for a general audience or an IT audience, adjust your use of technical terms appropriately. 
•	Employ a user-friendly tone.
•	Avoid jargon or acronyms that users would be unfamiliar with. 
•	Avoid using pronouns or the term "user(s)". Instead, use terms like you, your, or they. 
Within ServiceNow, knowledge base content can be created using various templates:
•	Standard: Provides one text box to describe information. This is the default template that should used. 
Font Formatting 
There should be a consistent look and feel throughout the knowledge base. Leave the default font settings when creating an article. 
•	Black font
•	Verdana
•	Paragraphs should be used for the main text.
•	Heading 2 should be used as the first heading used in the body of the article since the title of the article is considered Heading 1.
•	Use Heading 3, Heading 4, etc... under Heading 2, if you need to divide the section into smaller sub headings further. 
Titles
Titles of knowledge base articles should usually include the name of the relevant service. This is important for helping users to find relevant content when searching for it.
•	Recommended: Storage space limits for OneDrive
•	Not recommended: Storage Space Limits
Use sentence case (capitalize only the first word) for titles:
•	Recommended: Instructions for connecting to RUWireless
•	Not recommended: Instructions for Connecting to RUWireless
Commands, menus, and UI elements
Use bold text (not quotation marks) when referring to menus, menu options, dialog boxes, commands, buttons, and other user interface elements. Examples:
•	Recommended: To start your slide show choose Slide Show > Play from Current Slide.
•	Not recommended: To start your slide show choose “Slide Show,” and then “Play from Current Slide”.
In addition, try to avoid terms specific to one device or interface; also, avoid mentioning the specific UI element (i.e., that it’s a button). Instead, simply indicate what action a user needs to take. Examples:
•	Recommended: Select Save as and then…
•	Not recommended: Touch the Save as button.
Procedures and sequences
Use arrows for procedures. Bold the step, but not the arrow:
Example: Choose File > Share > Send PDF.
•	Recommended: Go to Tools > Spelling and Grammar > Hide Spelling Errors.
•	Not recommended: Go to the Tools menu, click Spelling and Grammar, and then select Hide Spelling Errors.
If including the purpose of an action, do so before the actions:
•	Reccomended: To share a document as a PDF, choose File > Share > Send PDF.
•	Not recommended: Choose File > Share > Send PDF to share a document as a PDF.
Lists
To enable screen readers to recognize this properly for accessibility standards, use the built-in numbered list and bullet point feature built into the toolbar of the editor. Avoid typing out numbers or bullet point manually. 
A sequence of steps should be formatted as a numbered list, to show there is an order of operations. 
A list of items should be in a bullet point list, typically these are informational and the order is not important. 
When a sequence of steps needs to be broken up into smaller subsections, you can create nested lists. Each nested list should be a different format, and in the following order: numbers, alphabetical, and then roman numerals. 
Example: 
1.	
1.	Go to File > Computer Configuration. 
1.	Check the box for Enabled. This will open a new dialog box.  
1.	Check the box for Authorized Users. 
2.	Click OK. 
2.	Click Save.
2.	Close the program window. 
For additional guidance, consult the Microsoft style guide for Lists. 
Error messages
Enclose examples in quotation marks.
Example: If you receive an error message saying, “Stop, you should wait to install Office 2016,” contact the Help Desk for assistance.
Key names and keyboard sequences
Capitalize key names and keyboard sequences such as:
•	Ctrl+Alt+Del
•	Shift
For additional guidance, consult the Microsoft style guide for keys and keyboard shortcuts.
Links
Use meaningful links and avoid “click here” as a link. Avoid displaying URLs unless necessary. 
•	Recommended: Contact the Help Desk for support.
•	Not recommended: To contact the Help Desk, click here.
•	Not recommended: Contact the Help Desk at https://it.rutgers.edu/help-support.
The link's text should clearly indicate what the link will redirect to.
•	Recommended: For more information, view the Microsoft Support page for Word. 
•	Not recommended: For more information, view the Microsoft Support page for Word. 
If the link is at the end of the sentence, avoid having the punctuation as part of the link. 
•	Recommended: For more information, view the Microsoft Support page for Word. 
•	Not recommended: For more information, view the Microsoft Support page for Word.
Placeholder text
Use italics for placeholder text. 
Example: Enter NetID username and password.
Images/Screenshots
Follow these general tips on inserting images. For more information, see ServiceNow's guide on inserting images. 
•	Avoid overusing screenshots unless they provide substantial value or clarification. For instance, do not use screenshots for obvious steps in a procedure, such as Next or OK.
•	If needed, add labels, arrows, or notes to clarify the content of screenshots.
•	Images should be added using the built-in Insert/edit image feature and not pasted into the article since a pasted image may not display correctly. 
•	Images should be resized so the text in the image is roughly the same size as the text of the article. Maximum width should be 840px to show correctly on the IT Help Self-Service Portal. 
•	All images should have Alt Text associated with them (added through the Insert/edit image feature) to allow the use of screen readers and to comply with accessibility standards. 
Alt Text
All images/media should have an alternative text associated with them so that screen readers can describe the context of the image. This aims to create a text alternative that serves the same purpose and presents the same information as the original non-text content. 
Example: A picture shows the login page for Rutgers Connect. Alt Text is "Login page for Rutgers Connect prompting for an email address"
General guidelines to follow for Alt Text:
•	You do not need to mention that it is a picture or screenshot of something, as that is implied. 
•	The Alt Text should adequately describe what is seen in the image, assuming no other context for the picture exists. 
•	If a particular button or icon is highlighted or pointed to, that should be mentioned in the Alt Text. 
•	If the image shows a series of steps, you do not need to mention the specific step numbers shown in the image since they will be in the numbered list of the knowledge article.
•	Similarly, the Alt Text should not say that it is "How to" do something, as that will be mentioned in the text of the knowledge article. 
•	Longer is not always better. Describing everything in extreme detail does not equate to good Alt Text.  
Tables 
Tables are not the most screen reader-friendly; as such, they should be used sparingly. Try reformatting to use a bulleted list whenever possible. To ensure digital accessibility, the table must have Headers and a Caption describing the table. 
Header
1.	Right-click on a cell in the row you want to make a Header. 
2.	Select Row > Row Properties. 
3.	Change Row Type to be Header. 
4.	Click Save. 
Caption
Every table should have a Caption at the top, so screen readers can access it first and describe the table, allowing the user to decide whether to go through the entire table or skip it completely. 
1.	Right-click on the table. 
2.	Click Table Properties. 
3.	Ensure Show Caption is checked. 
4.	Click Save.
5.	A new "cell" should appear at the top of the table with the word Caption in it. 
6.	Update the text as needed to describe the information the table presents. 
o	Similar to adding Alt Text to an image, it should allow the user to understand what the table is showing without being able to see the table itself.
o	Short and concise is preferred.  
o	You do not need to state that it is a table, or list every column header. Example for the table below:  
	Bad Example: "Table listing the available Headset item names, their description, and prices". 
	Good Example: "Available Headsets and their price".
" KB0016247 ServiceNow ITSM Services Rutgers IT Help (ServiceNow) portal user guide "
Managed by the ServiceNow platform, the Rutgers IT Help portal is a self-service portal designed for faculty, staff, and students who require tech help and support for various IT services at Rutgers.
What can the Rutgers IT Help portal do for you?
1.	The Rutgers IT knowledge base is a quick way to find answers to your IT questions. You can find hundreds of how-to articles and frequently asked questions on various IT topics.
2.	Can’t find what you’re looking for on your own or have an IT problem you can’t solve? Contact your support team or the Office of Information Technology Help Desk directly from the portal.
3.	All IT support interactions are logged through the portal so you can get the latest updates on your reported IT incidents or requests.
4.	From ordering computer equipment and software to requesting new groups or folders, IT service request forms are available based on your department or school information to streamline your requests.
For more information, view the portal quick reference card (QRC) or micro-learning videos.
KBB0010129ServiceNow - Service Portal training materials

 
" KB0017335 ServiceNow ITSM Services ServiceNow Knowledge Management Procedures "
Table of Contents
•	Knowledge Article Basics 
o	Article States
o	Article Links
o	Can Read (User Criteria Groups)
o	Anchor Links
o	Images
o	General Article Tips
o	Fixing Formatting Issues
o	Formatting FAQs
•	Accessibility Standards 
o	Text Alternative for Images/Media
o	Headings
o	Numbered or Bulleted Lists
o	Hyperlinks
o	Tables
o	Accessibility Checker tool
•	Creating Knowledge Articles  
o	Default Settings
o	Knowledge Blocks
•	Editing Knowledge Articles 
o	Checkout
o	Editing
o	Publishing
o	View Article
o	Recalling
o	Approving
•	Revert back to a previous version of a KA
•	Retiring Articles
•	Knowledge Feedback Tasks (KFTs)
•	Reviewing Expiring Knowledge Articles 
•	Article Valid To Dates
Knowledge Article Basics
Article States
Articles are categorized in one of the following States in the Workflow field. 
Draft
Indicates it is in edit mode and the settings/article body can be changed. This occurs when you first create a new article or when you Checkout an existing article to make changes to it. The version number of the article will show with a decimal after it to indicate it is not published (ex: Version 0.01 for a new article)
Review
When a Draft is ready, clicking Publish puts the article in the Review state. The appropriate owners of the Knowledge Base the article is in would then need to approve it before it is visible to users. 
Scheduled for Publish
For articles that have been approved after being reviewed but have a Scheduled Publish Date set for the article that has not passed yet. 
Published
The article is visible to users based on it’s Can read and Cannot read settings. Published articles have version numbers that are whole digits (ex: 1.0).
Pending Retirement
An article was selected for retirement by clicking Retire. It is still visible and not actually retired until the appropriate owners of the Knowledge Base it is in, approves the retirement. 
Retired
The retirement for the article was approved and it is no longer visible to users. 
Outdated
Means that a newer version of this article is available. You can check the version number of the article to see which it is. (ex: viewing version 1.0 of an article will show workflow as Outdated, when there is an updated published version 2.0)
How to view States
•	The Workflow column is visible in the back end view. Hovering over the icon displays which stage it is in. If you do not see this column you have to click on the gear icon on the top left of the list, and then add it to your Selected visible columns.
Error! Filename not specified.
•	When viewing the article, the state is shown in the Workflow field.
Error! Filename not specified.
Article Links
There are 4 different links that can take you to various versions of an article.
Front End Permalink
•	This is the link that should always be used whenever referencing an article to a user.
•	It is the link on the self service Portal that takes the user to the most updated version of the article. 
•	Navigate to the article on the Portal and click Copy Permalink located at the top or bottom of the article.
•	Example: https://ithelp.rutgers.edu/sp?id=kb_article_view&sysparm_article=KB0012508
Front End sys_id link
•	When used, will take the user to this specific version of the article. If used it will not bring them to the most current version of the article if it has since been updated, which is why this one should not typically be used. 
•	When viewing an article in the Portal, this is the link in the URL bar on the browser. 
•	Example: https://ithelp.rutgers.edu/sp?id=kb_article_view&sys_kb_id=08138ef71bbe4110743c54a51a4bcbf0
Back End Permalink
•	It is the link in the back end of ServiceNow that takes the user to the most updated version of the article. This link can be used for internal documentation only for IT users with access to the backend of ServiceNow.
•	Navigate to the article in the back end and click the Copy Permalink button located at the bottom of the article.
•	Example: https://rutgers.service-now.com/kb_view.do?sysparm_article=KB0012508
Back End sys_id link
•	It is the link in the back end of ServiceNow that takes the user to a specific version of the article. This should not typically be used. 
•	Navigate to the article in the back end, this is the link in the URL bar on the browser.
•	Example: https://rutgers.service-now.com/kb_knowledge.do?sys_id=08138ef71bbe4110743c54a51a4bcbf0&sysparm_referring_url=kb_view.do
Permalinks will always have a URL that ends in the KB number. 
Can Read (User Criteria Groups)
These are the groups used in the Can Read field to control who has access to the article. These groups are auto populated by the Assignment Groups (commonly used in Incidents) that are connected under the User Criteria Group. When adding one of these in the Can Read field on an article, you can select it to highlight it, then click the small information (i) icon to see what sources it pulls from to populate the membership for the group.
Anchor Links
These are bookmarks/direct links to a specific point in an article, which can be particularly useful if the article is long or has multiple sections you want to create a customized table of contents for at the top (there is a built in table of contents feature described below). To make an anchor link is a two step process. 
Making an anchor link
Using the built in function
1.	Click the spot in the text of the article you want to place the anchor point. 
2.	Click the Anchor button on the text editor toolbar which looks like a bookmark button. 
3.	Enter a short yet descriptive name for the anchor link, and do not include spaces. 
4.	Click OK and you should see the anchor icon appear in the article body. 
Manually
1.	Click the spot in the text of the article you want to place the anchor point. 
2.	Click the Source Code button on the text editor toolbar which looks like <>. 
3.	Copy and paste the text below, replacing ANCHORNAME with a short yet descriptive text term for your anchor:
<a name="ANCHORNAME"></a>
Using an anchor link
From a specific URL
Take the PermaLink for the article then add /#ANCHORNAME at the end to create a URL link to take users directly to where you put in the anchor on the article. Replacing ANCHORNAME with the text term you used when creating the anchor. 
From within the article
1.	If creating a table of contents for example, highlight the text you want users to click to take them to the anchor point. 
2.	Click the Insert/Modify Link button just as you would for creating an external link in the article.
3.	In the URL field type #ANCHORNAME while replacing ANCHORNAME with the text term you used when creating the anchor. 
Table of Contents
To easily create a table of contents you can use the built in button on the toolbar. Clicking it will automatically add it to the top of the article, utilizing all text formatted as Heading 1, 2 or 3 to create the clickable links in the table. Note that any text formatted as Heading 4 or lower will not be incorporated automatically into the table, you may manually insert it using an anchor link if desired. If any Headings are changed/deleted/added, you can click on the table itself and a refresh button will appear. Clicking on that will update the table to what the current Headings now are. 
Images
To ensure consistent image formatting follow these guidelines.
•	Avoid copy/pasting images into articles. Depending on your browser's capabilities, device type, form view, and other factors, copy/pasting images into an article or form does not always work as expected. It can also not display the image properly on the Portal for users who are not logged in. The recommended way to get an image into your article is to use the Edit Image button on the article editor. Review ServiceNow’s guide on inserting images. 
•	Screenshots/images should be indented over so they are not inline with text, therefore making it easier to scroll through the text. They should also have a blank line both above and under the image to provide a spacing buffer from any text in the article. 
•	All images should have Alt Text. 
•	Resize images, by dragging the corner of it, so the text in the image is roughly the same size or slightly bigger than the text of the article while viewing it in the html editor.
•	When inserting an image in a numbered or bullet sequence, press Shift+Enter to add a soft line break. This will tab down to the next line so the image can be inserted under the text, but does not continue the sequenced list for this line. After the image you can hit Enter to tab down to the next line and continue the numbered sequence.
Image standards
•	840px maximum width for it to be visible on the Portal.
•	.jpg, .gif, or .png format only.
•	Use file naming conventions that are logical and easy to remember. Include relevant keywords that are easy to search for, and have them numbered for a series of images of steps. 
•	Use only letters, numbers, hyphens, and underscores in file names. Other characters (like question marks and ampersands) may upload incorrectly or cause unexpected behavior.
How to Insert an Image
1.	Within the Article Body, click the space where the image should appear.
2.	On the text editor toolbar, click the Insert/Edit Image icon. The Insert/Modify Image pop-up displays.
3.	Make sure the Type is set to Attachment.
4.	Click the paperclip icon to browse for a new image (if no attachments are uploaded) or choose the image file name from the dropdown (when an article already has the image file uploaded).
5.	Enter alternative text for the image in the Alt Text field. 
o	Note: Alternative text (alt text) makes an image accessible to users who cannot see the image. Use Alt text for all images inserted into a KB article. Alt text should replicate in words what the image is communicating. 
6.	Click Save to close the window.
7.	Ensure there is a blank line both above and below the image to provide a buffer from any surrounding text. Ensure it is indented over so it is not in line with the text above it.
How to Edit an Image
1.	Within the Article Body, click on the image to highlight it.
2.	On the text editor toolbar, click the Insert/edit icon. The Insert/Modify Image pop-up displays.
3.	Enter alternative text for the image in the Alt Text field if one is not present. 
o	Note: Alternative text (alt text) makes an image accessible to users who cannot see the image. Use Alt text for all images inserted into a KB article. Alt text should replicate in words what the image is communicating. 
4.	Click Save to close the window.
5.	Ensure there is a blank line both above and below the image to provide a buffer from any surrounding text. Ensure it is indented over so it is not in line with the text above it.
General Article Tips
•	Review and follow the ITSM style guide as closely as possible!
•	Minimize references to specific individuals whenever possible to decrease the need to update the article more often as positions change and shift.
•	Avoid overusing acronyms. Acceptable on second and subsequent references; place the acronym in parentheses on the first reference. For example: “The Office of Information Technology (OIT) recently upgraded the service.”
•	Be attentive to language that has a specific meaning for IT people and an entirely different meaning for non-IT people, such as user, audit, client, domain, machine, package, tenant, and many others. Additionally, many technical terms, such as endpoints, SSID, and others, are not familiar to a non-technical audience; use other terms or define the terms you’re using, when applicable.
•	Be detailed / step-by-step instructions.
•	Avoid using gender specific pronouns (he/she) and instead use (they/them/you). 
•	Reference and link to Vendor/Service documentation whenever possible to take the burden of keeping information up to date off of us. No need to duplicate the same information.
•	The editor can be a little weird and do strange things sometimes. When copying and pasting content into the HTML editor, press Ctrl+Shift+V to paste without any formatting. You can always click the Source Code button to see what the text and formatting is doing if it’s acting up at a particular spot in an article. 
Fixing Formatting Issues
If when viewing an article any of the formatting looks off, such as a different font type, font size, or spacing issues this is typically caused by bad HTML code. More often than not it is from content that has been copied and pasted into an article without having the source formatting removed. Even if you highlight the text and manually change the font type and size to what it should be, it may still appear wrong if there is additional font styling in the code. 
You can see this by clicking the Source Code button ( <> ) in the KA editor toolbar and look for the word “style” in blue text as shown below. These inline style codes will override any other formatting for the specific text lines they are on. 
Example of bad inline style code: <span style="font-size: 12pt; font-family: 'times new roman', times;"> 
You can manually remove the entire style code, by deleting the word style and all the text formatting that appears in the reddish brown color, and leaving only the green code. 
For long articles with alot of customized inline style code this can be time consuming. To easily wipe out all style codes for an entire do the following, but note that this may cause issues if images have been pasted into an article and not inserted as an attachment:
1.	Open the source code for the article giving you issues. 
2.	Press Ctrl + A to select all of the code. 
3.	Press Ctrl + C to copy all the code. 
4.	Go to this HTML Code Cleaner. 
5.	Paste the entire code in the empty box on the right side of the screen, the left side will show a preview of what the text currently looks like.
6.	Click Clean HTML and this will remove all the inline style coding.
7.	Click Ctrl + A to select all the freshly cleaned code from the right side, and then Ctrl + C to copy it. 
8.	Go back to the source code of the KA. 
9.	Delete all existing code. 
10.	Press Ctrl + V to paste in all the cleaned up code you copied from the website. 
11.	Click OK and confirm that everything looks correct and all the previous images are still there. 
Alternatively you can use the editor’s built in feature to clear some, but not all, formatting. 
1.	Highlight the text in the editor that you want to remove formatting from, or press Ctrl + A to select all the text. 
2.	Press the Clear formatting button on the toolbar, which looks like:Error! Filename not specified.
3.	This should remove any style coding from the highlighted text. 
Viewing the article in the editor may not show all the formatting that may be hidden in the source code. This is why you should always view the article normally in the back end (by clicking View Article) or on the Portal, to see how it would truly appear. Especially before approving it to be published. 
Formatting FAQs
Follow these general guidelines when handling a page that is entirely or partially a question and answer format (FAQs). 
For articles have more than 5 questions/answers:
•	
o	Format the questions as the appropriate level of Heading (2,3,4,etc..) with no other alterations to the text.
o	Format the answers as regular paragraph text but indented over. 
o	Utilize the built in Table of Contents feature and place it at the beginning of the questions, ensuring that only the questions are show in the table and any other headings are removed. 
For articles with less than 5 questions/answers:
•	
o	Format the question as regular paragraph text, but bold it. 
o	Format the answers as regular paragraph text but indented over. 
Accessibility Standards
In order to adhere to Rutgers Digital Accessibility policies, all documentation should be in compliance with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1 Level AA. In particular the items below should be adhered to for all knowledge articles. 
Text Alternative for Images/Media
General guidelines to follow for Alt Text:
•	You do not need to mention that it is a picture or screenshot of something, as that is implied. 
•	The Alt Text should adequately describe what is seen in the image, assuming no other context for the picture exists. 
•	If a particular button or icon is highlighted or pointed to, that should be mentioned in the Alt Text. 
•	If the image shows a series of steps, you do not need to mention the specific step numbers shown in the image since they will be in the numbered list of the knowledge article.
•	Similarly, the Alt Text should not say that it is "How to" do something, as that will be mentioned in the text of the knowledge article. 
•	Longer is not always better. Describing everything in extreme detail does not equate to good Alt Text.  
Examples
•	A picture shows the login page for Rutgers Connect. Alt Text is "Login page for Rutgers Connect prompting for an email address"
•	A picture shows how a knot is tied including arrows showing how the ropes go to make the knot. The text alternative describes how to tie the knot, not what the picture looks like.
•	A picture shows what a toy looks like from the front. The text alternative describes a front view of the toy.
How to add/edit Alt Text
For images already in an article:
1.	Click on the image to highlight it. 
2.	On the toolbar, click the Insert/edit image icon.
3.	In the Alt text field provide a short yet descriptive text alternative. 
4.	Click Save. 
Headings
In order for screen readers to appropriately describe the text on the screen to users, headings should be formatted as such. This helps users “skim" the headings to locate the specific content they need, and is especially helpful when browsers or assistive technology allow navigation from heading to heading. These heading should be short yet descriptive ways to break up long articles into smaller sections. 
All headings should be set to use Heading 2 by default. Any further separation in each section should use Heading 3 then Heading 4 etc… but should always be in increasing sequential order.
Example: An HTML page that describes the range of tasks for disaster preparation may have the following headings:
<h2>Disaster preparation</h2>
<h3>Flood preparation</h3>
<h3>Fire preparation</h3>
Note that the level 3 headings have the distinguishing information at the beginning (ie, instead of "Preparation for floods", "Preparation for fires", etc).
Text should never be colored anything other than the default black. Colored text to denote importance does not adhere to the accessibility standards. 
Numbered or Bulleted Lists
In order for screen readers to properly go through a series of steps or list of items it has to be formatted appropriately. A numbered or bulleted list should always be created using one of the list buttons in the editor toolbar. Simply typing numbers with parentheses or periods, such as "1), 2), 3)," or an asterisk in front of each item on a new line or paragraph will NOT create a numbered or bulleted list that is accessible by a screen reader.
A good guide to follow can be found on Microsoft’s website on the proper procedure for lists. 
Inserting images into lists
When inserting an image in a numbered or bullet sequence, press Shift+Enter to add a soft line break. This will tab down to the next line so the image can be inserted under the text, but does not continue the sequenced list for this line. After the image you can hit Enter to tab down to the next line and continue the numbered sequence. See the Images section of this article for more information on adding images.
Hyperlinks
Hyperlinks connect a hypertext file or document to another location or file. Linked information is typically presented in the form of text, websites, files, or video content. 
Embed a link within a concise string of text instead of using its URL as the link text. A screen reader user will more easily understand where an accessible link leads and will not have to listen while the reader pronounces every single character of a URL. 
Example:
•	
o	Accessible: OIT Help Desk
o	Not accessible: https://it.rutgers.edu/help-support/
Descriptive hyperlinks will more clearly explain what information they link to. 
Example:
•	
o	Descriptive: Benefits of Accessible Hyperlinks
o	Not descriptive: Benefits
Use the full email address as the link text rather than embedding it in other link text. 
Example:
•	
o	Accessible: help@oit.rutgers.edu
o	Not accessible: OIT Help Desk Support *This example does not convey that it is an email address.
Other Tips:
•	Choose hyperlink text that clearly identifies the content of the resource being linked to.
•	Hyperlink text should not consist of the URL unless it is likely to be printed; e.g., Word document.
•	If a hyperlink downloads a file, be sure to mention that. 
o	Example: Campus Map (PDF, 5.62 MB)
•	Hyperlinks may fail to open when clicking on them in the backend of ServiceNow, as it tries to open the link within the ServiceNow window itself. If this happens, right click the link and choose to open it in a new tab which should open the link correctly. This only applies to the backend and not the user facing side of ServiceNow. 
Tables
Tables are not the most screen reader-friendly, as such they should be use sparingly. Try reformatting to use a bulleted list whenever possible. To ensure digital accessibility, the table must have Headers and a Caption describing the table. 
Table Header
Only available for a row or individual cells. You can not easily make a whole column a Header if that is what's needed. However, a table should be formatted so the top row is the header whenever possible. 
To make a row a Header (typically the top row):
1.	Right-click on a cell in the row you want to make a Header. 
2.	Select Row > Row Properties. 
3.	Change Row Type to be Header. 
4.	Click Save. 
To make a cell a Header (if needed):
1.	Right-click on a cell you want to make a Header. 
2.	Select Cell > Cell Properties. 
3.	Change Row Type to be Header. 
4.	Click Save. 
5.	Repeat for other cells as needed. 
Table Header Scope
You must also define the scope to which the Header applies. Typically, this is the cell in the top row, and the scope would apply to the column beneath it. You must set the scope specifically for each cell. 
1.	Right-click on each cell. 
2.	Select Cell > Cell Properties. 
3.	Change Scope to be Column. 
4.	Click Save. 
Table Caption
Every table should have a Caption at the top, so screen readers can access it first and describe the table, allowing the user to decide whether to go through the entire table or skip it completely. 
To add a caption to a table:
1.	Right-click on the table. 
2.	Click Table Properties. 
3.	Ensure Show Caption is checked. 
4.	Click Save.
5.	A new "cell" should appear at the top of the table with the word Caption in it. 
6.	Update the text as needed to describe the information the table presents. 
o	Similar to adding Alt Text to an image, it should allow the user to understand what the table is showing without being able to see the table itself.
o	Short and concise is preferred.  
o	You do not need to state that it is a table, or list every column header.   
	Bad Example: "Table listing the available Headset item names, their description, and prices". 
	Good Example: "Available Headsets and their price".
Accessibility Checker tool
The Accessibility Checker (person icon in the article editor toolbar) enables you to identify and resolve accessibility related issues in a Knowledge article.
1.	Select it, and the Accessibility Checker window will display any issues it finds, along with suggestions for resolving them.
2.	You can choose to Repair the issues automatically or Ignore them if they're not applicable.
3.	If your article is already fully accessible, you'll see a success message.
This tool may not catch all issues and adhere to all formatting standards described in this Knowledge article. Therefore, it's imperative to still conduct a manual review of all KAs and not ..." KB0018863 Smartsheet How can I contact our Smartsheet representative directly? "
If you have specific questions for the Smartsheet team, complete the Smartsheet Call Survey form. Your inquiry will be directed to Smartsheet Account Executive, Bruna O’Keefe, who can arrange a call with you and your team if needed.? 
" KB0011394 Smartsheet Logging into Smartsheet KB0018899 Smartsheet Smartsheet FAQ "
Table of Contents
•	What is Smartsheet Advanced Work Management (AWM)?
•	Will I lose access to Smartsheet on December 16th? 
•	How do I renew my subscription to ensure I don't lose access?? 
•	I no longer want a paid subscription to Smartsheet. What do I need to do? 
•	What is a Provisional Member?
•	What is the review process for Provisional Members?
•	Can we get a list of licensed users in our department?
•	Where can I find the links to the recordings for the Smartsheet Zoom meetings?
•	How can I contact our Smartsheet representative directly?
•	What Smartsheet help and training resources are there??
•	How do I log in to Smartsheet?
What is Smartsheet Advanced Work Management (AWM)?
Starting in December 2025, Smartsheet will transition to the Advanced Work Management licensing mode. Visit the AWM Dashboard for information about each of the model’s components. While this update will result in increased costs and necessitate some adjustments to how user roles and access are managed, it will also introduce enhanced functionality and new user types.  
What will the new user roles be?? 
•	Member: Includes paid internal and external users. Grants full platform access. This cost is approximately $65/per month per member.? 
•	Provisional Member: A temporary seat type with full access, pending review and purchase of a member subscription. 
•	Viewer: For internal or external users with view-only access, no paid license required.? 
•	Guest: External users (non-Rutgers affiliated) with Commenter or Editor permissions, no paid license required.? 
Note that the "Free Unlicensed User/Collaborator" role will be discontinued. If you require more than Viewer access, you must purchase a Member subscription.? 
Will I lose access to Smartsheet on December 16th? 
No, you will not lose your Smartsheet access. 
•	Enterprise Licensed Smartsheet users will be assigned a Member role.
•	Enterprise Free Unlicensed Collaborators who have directly edited or commented on a sheet in the last 90 days will be temporarily assigned a Provisional Member role.
•	Enterprise Free Unlicensed Collaborators, who have not directly edited or commented on a sheet in the last 90 days, will be assigned a Viewer role.
Note: Work is underway to migrate the External Free Unlicensed Collaborators (trial accounts set up directly through Smartsheet) into the Enterprise account. 
•	If you have more the one Smartsheet account, they will be merged, and the Primary Email address will become your NetID@rutgers.edu address.
•	If you do not have your NetID@rutgers.edu email address on your account, it will be added and made the Primary Email Address.
How do I renew my subscription to ensure I don't lose access?? 
In November, all current licensed Smartsheet Enterprise users who have purchased a subscription within the past year will be sent an email. It will include a link to the new Smartsheet Enterprise Member Advanced Work Management product page. You must place your orders through the new product page.
•	Smartsheet Member Subscriptions can only be purchased via a monthly subscription using a payment account.
•	Orders placed in November will not be billed until January for the month of December.
•	If you do not renew your subscriptions prior to December 19th, your permission will be downgraded to Viewer.
I no longer want a paid subscription to Smartsheet. What do I need to do? 
No action is needed. If you do not renew your subscription prior to December 19th, your permission will be downgraded to Viewer.
What is a Provisional Member?
A Provisional Member is a temporary role with full access, pending review and purchase of a member subscription. If no Member subscription is purchased within the allotted time, the person's role will be downgraded to Viewer. 
What is the review process for Provisional Members?
1.	Enterprise Free Unlicensed Collaborators who have directly edited or commented on one sheet in the 90 days before 12/16/2025 will be temporarily assigned a Provisional Member role.
2.	The Provisional Members will receive an email that includes a link to the new Smartsheet Enterprise Member product page, along with the date (TBD) by which they must set up their monthly subscription.
3.	Those who do not purchase a subscription prior to that date will have their permission downgraded to Viewer on (TBD).
Can we get a list of licensed users in our department?
Yes, email software@rutgers.edu with the subject “Smartsheet licensed user list” and you will receive a link to a list of the licensed users, which includes User Name, Primary Email Address, Status, Sheets (Created), and Last Login.
Where can I find the links to the recordings for the Smartsheet Zoom meetings?
The Smartsheet team hosted a Zoom meeting on July 24, 2025, to provide details important to the upcoming licensing model changes scheduled for December 2025. The meeting included information on how to update existing processes to help make the transition smoother, as well as a discussion of some of the new features.  
July 24th Webinar recording
The Smartsheet team hosted a Zoom meeting on April 22, 2025, and provided details important to the upcoming licensing model changes scheduled for December 2025. The meeting included information on Data Shuttle and how to set up the Dynamic View feature.  
April 22nd Webinar recording 
How can I contact our Smartsheet representative directly?
If you have specific questions for the Smartsheet team, complete the Smartsheet Call Survey form. Your inquiry will be directed to Smartsheet Account Executive, Bruna O’Keefe, who can arrange a call with you and your team if needed.? 
What Smartsheet help and training resources are there??
View the full list of Smartsheet training resources.    
How do I log in to Smartsheet?
Follow the guide on logging into Smartsheet with your NetID@rutgers.edu email address. 
" KB0018860 Smartsheet What is Smartsheet Advanced Work Management (AWM)? "
Starting in December 2025, Smartsheet will transition to the Advanced Work Management licensing mode. Visit the AWM Dashboard for information about each of the model’s components. While this update will bring an increase in costs and require some adjustments to how user roles and access are managed, enhanced functionality and new user types will be introduced.  
What will the new user roles be?? 
•	Member: Includes paid internal and external users. Grants full platform access. This cost is approximately $65/per month per member.? 
•	Provisional Member: A temporary seat type with full access, pending review and purchase of a member subscription. 
•	Viewer: For internal or external users with view-only access, no paid license required.? 
•	Guest: External users (non-Rutgers affiliated) with Commenter or Editor permissions, no paid license required.? 
Note that the "Free Unlicensed User/Collaborator" role will be discontinued. If you require more than Viewer access, you must purchase a Member subscription.? 
" KB0018861 Smartsheet What Smartsheet help and training resources are there?? "
The Smartsheet Support?team is standing by, ready to answer your questions and diagnose any issues you may be facing. 
Smartsheet Pro Desk - Pro Desk delivers practical one-on-one coaching sessions with a Smartsheet expert to help you optimize your projects, programs, and processes.?
Smartsheet University eLearning - This online, on-demand resource provides module-based Smartsheet training and offers "Smartsheet certification" so your users can certify their proficiency with the platform. It's a great place to go for a refresher on how to use Smartsheet or quick walkthroughs about using the latest features we release.? 
Smartsheet Community - Find peer-to-peer information about everything Smartsheet related – from project management best practices to invaluable how-to guidance from fellow users and Smartsheet experts.? 
Update Requests - Send update requests to get updated by any collaborator on key rows, regardless of whether they have a Smartsheet account or are shared to the sheet.? 
Forms - Forms make it easy to collect consistent, error-free data from all your stakeholders and save it directly into your sheet, where you can take action. Forms are ideal for field ticket collection, request management, event registration, collecting customer feedback, and more.? 
Approval Requests - Approval requests pause the workflow until the request is approved or declined. At each approval or rejection, the conditions and actions on the path determine what happens next.? (You do not need to be a member to approve requests.)? 
Alerts & Reminders - Both alerts and reminders can be set up individually or together as part of a larger workflow with multiple conditions. They can also be sent to various recipients regularly, even if the recipient is not shared in your sheet.? 
Dynamic View - Smartsheet Dynamic View enables business owners to share information with the right people at the right time for viewing or editing. Whether working with vendors, mixed internal and external teams, or across organizations, Dynamic View allows you to maintain process confidentiality by preventing users or vendors from accessing the whole sheet, all without hindering the collaboration required to execute work.? 
Data Shuttle - Data Shuttle by Smartsheet streamlines the process of transferring data between Smartsheet and other systems, making it easier for users to import and export data while maintaining accuracy and efficiency.? 
Calendar App - The Smartsheet Calendar App is a flexible, configurable calendar add-on that allows you to connect your Smartsheet data and forms to visualize your events in multiple views or by color-coded categories.?
" KB0018876 Smartsheet Where can I find the links to the recordings for the Smartsheet Zoom meetings? "
The Smartsheet team hosted a Zoom meeting on July 24, 2025, to provide details that are important to the upcoming licensing model changes occurring in December 2025. The meeting included information on how to update your existing processes to help make the transition smoother and a discussion of some of the new features.  
July 24th Webinar recording
The Smartsheet team hosted a Zoom meeting on April 22, 2025, and provided details that are important to the upcoming licensing model changes occurring in December 2025. The meeting included information on Data Shuttle and how to set up the Dynamic View feature.  
April 22nd Webinar recording 
" KB0012509 Software and Applications Distribution Enterprise Document Solutions typical service engagement "
The Enterprise Document Solutions team has developed a standard for service engagements to ensure a great outcome and partner satisfaction. The graphic below provides a high-level overview of the project phases, while the table provides detailed information about the different phases of a service engagement.
Error! Filename not specified.
 
Project phase	Description	Deliverables
Plan	The OIT Enterprise Document Solutions team will work with the partner to confirm project scope, set the project schedule, and identify partner & vendor resources. Project Management, IT, and Business Owner resources will be required to take part in this phase for various tasks. Approval of the project scope and project timeline is required from the partner and OIT to move forward to the Design phase.	•	Project Charter/Statement of Work (SOW)
•	Project Timeline
•	Project Status Reports
•	Technical Documentation
•	Design Schedule
Design	Discussions including industry best practices, while maintaining awareness of project scope. All solution requirements will be documented within the design document. Partner resources will be actively engaged in design discussions and mock-up reviews and will provide requested deliverables before approval of the final design requirements. Design approval is required from both OIT and partner representatives before moving to the subsequent phase.	•	Design Document
•	Partner approval of Design Document
•	Partner Design Deliverables
•	Design Status Reports
•	Test Case Template
•	Project Status Reports
•	Project Status Meetings
Build	The solution components will be built and tested, prior to the commencement of the Deliver phase.	•	Preliminary build of solution
•	Project Status Reports
•	Project Status Meetings
•	Deliver schedule
•	Complete software installation
Deliver	Configuration, training, and delivery of the customer-approved solution. The partner’s designated super user(s) will need to be involved and actively engaged during this project phase. After the delivery is complete, the customer should proceed with testing with OIT Enterprise Document Solutions support.	•	Ordered hardware to be delivered
•	Product quick reference guides provided by EDS
•	Partner sign-off on delivered solution/training
•	Project Status Reports and Status Meetings
•	Test cases for testing completed by customer
Transition	Following the delivery of the finalized solution, training, and testing, the Go Live of the solution will occur. Once all tasks are completed and approved by the partner and OIT, the project will be transitioned to the support model.	•	Closing documentation
•	Partner Project Survey
 
" KB0012585 Software and Applications Distribution iMovie "
iMovie is a free video editing program available for any MacOS or iOS device. Apple has comprehensive guides available for using iMovie on a Mac, iPhone, and iPad. 
Additional resources for learning and using iMovie include:
•	iMovie documentation and troubleshooting guide (Apple)
•	iMovie LinkedIn Learning course (LinkedIn Learning)
" KB0012586 Software and Applications Distribution OpenShot "
OpenShot is a free open-source and cross-platform video editor that works on Windows, macOS, and Linux. Project files are also cross-platform, meaning users can save a video project within one operating system and open it on another.
The OpenShot User Guide provides detailed instructions on files, clips, transitions, effects, profiles, animations, and more. 
For installation instructions, please visit the OpenShot Video Editor Installation page. 
For a quick tutorial, please visit the OpenShot Quick Tutorial page. 
•	Step 1 - Import Photos & Music
•	Step 2 - Add Photos to Timeline
•	Step 3 - Add Music to Timeline
•	Step 4 - Preview your Project
•	Step 5 - Export your Video
For more information, please view the OpenShot Video Tutorial on YouTube. 
" KB0012726 Software and Applications Distribution Perceptive Content "
Perceptive Content (formerly known as ImageNow) is a full Enterprise Content Management (ECM) and workflow suite used to handle various content types and put them in the proper context of an area’s process or need.
Perceptive Content features dozens of modules that allow it to interact with specific applications, processes, and users. It can help reduce paper files, reduce the need for printing & copying documents, as well as eliminate your need for physical storage of documents. Perceptive Content allows users to efficiently capture and organize various types of documents and then retrieve a precise page instantly from within any business application.
Error! Filename not specified.
The screenshot above shows you a small part of the Perceptive Content interface.
•	The main panel (shown on the right) contains buttons for accessing various tools within the application.
•	The left-hand side shows the document list view, which is highly customizable for hiding, showing, and grouping by available columns.
•	Finally, on the right-hand side, you can see the document viewer. There are a number of tools for annotating documents, as well as routing documents within workflow if needed.
Technical support questions should be routed through your departmental IT support personnel. If IT support personnel need to escalate concerns to the EDS team, they can do so after initial troubleshooting has been performed. 
Perceptive Content at Rutgers is managed by Enterprise Document Solutions (EDS). Further information can be found on the perceptive content home page. For more information, please contact eds-content@oit.rutgers.edu.
" KB0012730 Software and Applications Distribution Windows 10/11 Video Editor "
Windows 10/Windows 11 has a built in video editor that can accomplish basic editing tasks including trimming, splicing and adding text overlays. View Microsoft's user guide on how to Create Films with a Video Editor on Windows. 
" KB0013114 Software FAQs How can I download the Webex App? "
Before downloading the Webex App, ensure your Webex account is activated. For instructions on activating your Webex account, please visit the Rutgers IT Help article on the Webex Quick Start Guide. 
Download the Cisco Webex App on Mobile
1.	Navigate to the Rutgers Webex page.
2.	Log in with your NetID & NetID Password. 
3.	Click on the drop-down menu in the upper left-hand corner, indicated by the three horizontal lines.
4.	Select Download from the menu.
5.	Under the Cisco Webex Meetings mobile app, select your desired operating system. 
6.	On the App Store or Google Play, download it onto your Mobile device. 
Download Cisco Webex App on Windows
1.	Navigate to the Rutgers Webex page.
2.	Log in with your NetID & NetID Password. 
3.	Click on the drop-down menu in the upper left-hand corner, indicated by the three horizontal lines.
4.	Select Download from the menu.
5.	In Webex Meetings, click the drop-down menu to select your desired Windows version.
6.	A file will download to your computer. Click Save.
7.	Run the file and follow the installation instructions.
Download Cisco Webex App on macOS & Linux
1.	Navigate to the Rutgers Webex page.
2.	Log in with your NetID & NetID Password. 
3.	Click on the drop-down menu in the upper left-hand corner, indicated by the three horizontal lines.
4.	Select Download from the menu.
5.	On the Downloads page, click on the Download button.
6.	On the Webex page, scroll to the Other download option section. 
7.	Click on the Download Options drop-down menu.
8.	Select your desired operating system. 
9.	A file will download to your computer. Click Save.
10.	Run the file and follow the installation instructions. 
" KB0013118 Software FAQs How do I disable chat in my Webex meeting? "
The chat panel can be disabled during scheduling on the website and during an active meeting.
To disable the chat panel while scheduling from the website
1.	On the scheduling page, click on Show advanced options.
2.	Select the Scheduling options drop-down option.
3.	Navigate to Meeting options and select Edit meeting options.
4.	From the pop-up, uncheck the Chat box.
5.	Select OK.
To disable the chat panel within an active meeting
1.	Select the Meeting drop-down from the menu bar at the top.
2.	Select Options.
3.	In the Meeting Options window, uncheck the Chat box.
4.	Select OK.
To manage who participants can chat with in a meeting 
1.	Select the Participant drop-down from the menu bar at the top.
2.	Select Assign Privileges.
3.	Choose who participants can chat with.
4.	Select OK.
 
" KB0013115 Software FAQs Why can no one hear me on Webex? "
If no one can hear you during your Webex session, there may be issues with your audio connection or microphone. Follow the troubleshooting steps below:
1.	Make sure that your device or microphone is not muted.
2.	Ensure you do not have other applications, such as Zoom or Skype, running in the background that may interfere with your mic. 
3.	Check your input microphone volume in Sound settings. 
4.	Make sure you have connected to the audio portion of the session either through your computer (Call Using Computer) or your telephone (Click More Options > I Will Call In).
5.	Ensure you have selected the proper Audio Source by navigating to Audio > Speaker, Microphone, and Camera. For the microphone, select the mic you want to use. If your mic isn't listed, it may not be plugged in properly.
For detailed instructions, visit the Webex Help Center page on choosing your audio and video settings before you join a meeting or webinar. 
" KB0013116 Software FAQs Why can no one see me on Webex? "
If no one can see you during your Webex session, there may be potential issues with your camera settings. Follow the troubleshooting steps below:
1.	Ensure your camera permissions are properly configured in Settings > Privacy & Security > Camera > Turn on Camera access. 
2.	Ensure you do not have other applications, such as Zoom or Skype, working in the background that may be accessing your camera.
3.	Ensure you have the proper Camera Input Source selected by navigating to the Stop video's drop-down menu. 
4.	If using a desktop camera, ensure your lens is not blocked, such as by a lens cover. If your camera is still off, click Start Video to show your video.
5.	If using a mobile camera, tap Turn on my video to show your video.
6.	If using a web browser, click Start Video to show your video. 
7.	Leave & Rejoin the Webex meeting. 
For detailed instructions, visit the Webex Help Center page on choosing your audio and video settings before you join a meeting or webinar. 
 
" KB0015521 Software Portal Help "How to find your license key and downloads, or transfer a license for your software order" "
Finding a license key or download
When your order was fulfilled, an email was sent with the information to view the license keys and details for your purchase. Alternatively, you may also find these details on the Software Portal.
Visit the My Software page on the Software Portal to view all the software you currently own. This is also located under the My Account drop-down, then My Software. This page shows all of the licenses and/or subscriptions you own, with the download(s) and license key(s) for each.
Transfer a license to another user
You can transfer the license for most software you own to another person from the My Software page.
For certain products (such as BioRender, Graphpad, LucidSuite, Smartsheet, and Microsoft products), please refer to the instructions on how to transfer the subscription for these specific products.
For all other software, you can follow the instructions below:
1.	Visit the My Software page on the Software Portal to view all the software you currently own. This is also located under the My Account drop-down, then My Software.
2.	Click the three dots on the top right of the product you want to transfer. 
3.	Select Transfer License to Another User to give your license to someone else. 
o	We recommend searching using the person's NetID. Only people who currently have a profile with the Software Portal will show up in the search results (anyone with a valid NetID can create a profile simply by logging in to the portal for the first time).
 
" KB0017395 Software Portal Help Monthly Subscriptions on the Software Portal "
Table of Contents
•	Payment method
•	How to subscribe
•	How to cancel your monthly subscriptions
•	FAQs 
o	When does the monthly subscription get billed?
o	If I cancel, when do I lose access?
o	Is there a prorated refund if I cancel mid-month?
o	How do I get access to a payment account to subscribe?
o	I'm the department's Director/Business Manager. How do I add an account for people to use?
o	Can we use a Project String?
Starting in July 2024, select products on the Software Portal are available to be subscribed to via an automatic recurring monthly subscription. This payment offering is in addition to the available term subscription (typically pro-rated yearly subscriptions), which must be renewed manually. 
Payment method
Monthly subscriptions can only be purchased if you have been given access to use a departmental payment account by the owner of that account. The payment accounts are tied directly to a General Ledger (GL) code for your department and must be set up by your department's Director/Business Manager. 
Credit Cards, Purchase Orders, or Project Strings are not acceptable forms of payment for monthly subscriptions. You may use these forms of payment for term subscriptions where available. Note: Some subscription based products are only available via monthly subscriptions. 
How to subscribe
If you have been given access to a departmental payment account to use for a monthly subscription, you may subscribe by doing the following.
1.	Log in to the Software Portal and find the software you want to subscribe to. 
2.	On the Software's Product Page, click on Get [Product Name]...
3.	Under Monthly Subscription, click Subscribe... 
o	If there is no Monthly Subscription option, then the software is not available for this payment option.
4.	In the drop-down menu under Payment Account, choose the account to be charged. You will only see accounts that you have been given access to. 
5.	Under Choose your recipients, enter the NetID of the individual(s) you want to subscribe to and select their name from the list. 
o	User accounts with (-adm) must not be used.
o	Your own user account will be pre-populated as a recipient of the subscription. However, if you only wish to subscribe for someone else, you will need to remove your own account by clicking the X.
6.	Confirm the information under Cost is correct, then click Subscribe. 
If you receive an error, email software@rutgers.edu with a screenshot.
How to cancel your monthly subscriptions
Only payment account owners or subscribed users can cancel user subscriptions.
Prior to cancellation, ensure that the user has downloaded and backed up any necessary data/files from the software since it will all be deleted when your subscription is canceled. 
1.	Log in to the Software Portal. 
2.	Under the My Account drop-down, select My Payment Accounts. 
3.	Go to the GL account and click Show Details. 
4.	Click on Subscriber Expenses. 
5.	Find the person/software you would like to cancel.
6.	Click Cancel and follow the prompts. 
FAQs
When does the monthly subscription get billed?
Monthly subscriptions are billed in arrears, meaning charges for subscriptions active in one month are billed the following month. For example, if a subscription starts in January, the billing entry will appear sometime in February.
If I cancel, when do I lose access?
When a monthly subscription is canceled, you retain access until the end of that calendar month.
Is there a prorated refund if I cancel mid-month?
There are no refunds for monthly subscriptions. If canceled in the middle of a month, you retain access until the end of that calendar month.
How do I get access to a payment account to subscribe?
Please reach out to your department's Director/Business Manager for further details. 
I'm the department's Director/Business Manager. How do I add an account for people to use?
See the Software Portal Account Manager knowledge article.
Can we use a Project String?
The use of Project Account Strings is not available. Some have chosen to set up the payment account using the department GL string. Then, depending on the cadence they choose (monthly, quarterly, biannually, or annually), they process a Journal Entry to the project.
" KB0017480 Software Portal Help Payment Account Owner information for the Software Portal "
Table of Contents
•	What roles are available? What are the access and responsibilities for each? 
o	Payment Account Owner
o	Delegated Payment Account Manager
o	Payment Account User
•	How to become a Payment Account Owner
•	Adding a payment account
•	Managing your payment account
•	How to subscribe
•	How to transfer orders from one Payment Account to another 
o	Who Can Request a Transfer
o	How to Submit a Request
•	How to cancel subscriptions from your payment account 
•	FAQs 
o	When does the monthly subscription get billed?  
o	If I cancel, when do I lose access?
o	Is there a prorated refund if I cancel mid-month?
o	If a person's subscription is canceled and resubscribed in the same month, is the GL or Project String charged twice? 
o	Can I get a report of active subscriptions?
o	Can we use a Project String?
o	Are subscriptions canceled automatically if the user is no longer in my department or at the university?
o	How do we transfer a subscription?
o	How do I transfer ownership of my Payment Account(s) to another person?
Starting in July 2024, select products on the Software Portal can be subscribed to via an automatic recurring monthly subscription. 
This article is intended for Directors/Business Managers to set up or manage a payment account for people in their department. The payment accounts are tied directly to a General Ledger (GL) or Project Strings for your department.  
Please contact your department's business manager to determine if a Payment Account Owner or a Delegated Payment Account Manager has been assigned to your area.
What roles are available? What are the access and responsibilities for each?
Payment Account Owner
The Payment Account Owner is the person responsible for billing against the Payment Account(s) they created in the Software Portal.
They can:
•	Add new Payment Accounts
•	Add Delegated Payment Account Manager(s)
•	Add Payment Account User(s)
•	Place orders for themselves and/or others
•	Cancel order for themselves and/or others
•	Run and review reports for users who are no longer with your department or the university.
Delegated Payment Account Manager
The Delegated Payment Account Manager is added to Payment Account(s) by the Payment Account Owner.
They can:
•	Add other Delegated Payment Account Manager(s)
•	Add Payment Account User(s)
•	Place orders for themselves and/or others
•	Cancel order for themselves and/or others
•	Run and review reports for users who are no longer with your department or the university.
Payment Account User
They can:
•	Can place orders for themselves. They will be able to place orders for any monthly subscription.
•	Cancel orders for themselves
How to become a Payment Account Owner
Confirm with your Director or Business Manager whether a Payment Account Owner or a Delegated Payment Account Manager has been assigned to your area.
If there is no Payment Account Owner assigned to your area, your department Director or Business Manager will need to email software@rutgers.edu with the subject line "Software Portal Payment Account Owner Access,” and include the Name, NetID, phone number, and email address in the body of the email. Each GL or Project String can only have one Payment Account Owner. 
Note: Payment Account Owners are responsible to:
•	Add new Payment Accounts
•	Add Delegated Payment Account Manager(s)
•	Add Payment Account User(s)
•	Place orders for themselves and/or others
•	Cancel order for themselves and/or others
•	Run and review reports for users who are no longer with your department or the university.
Once the Payment Account Owners' access has been updated in the Software Portal, they will be notified via the ServiceNow Incident that was created, and then they can proceed to add payment account(s).
Adding a payment account
1.	Log in to the Software Portal. 
2.	Under the My Account drop-down, select My Payment Accounts. 
3.	Click Add Account.  
o	The account code consists of 6 required parts, 1 fixed part, and 1 optional part. Specify all the parts of your account code, separating each part with a period(.).
4.	Enter the GL or Project string.  
o	GL String: 
	The account code consists of 6 required parts, 1 fixed part, and 1 optional part. Specify all the parts of your account code below, separating each part with a period (.). 
	The Unit.Division.Organization (UDO) combination is specified as the first 3 segments of the account code. The Chart of Accounts lists valid and invalid UDO combinations. These rules are enforced here during account code validation. 
	The next 3 segments specify Location.Fund Type.Business Line. Each segment corresponds to an existing element as defined in the Chart of Accounts. 
Expenditure type is a fixed code we automatically apply to your account code. You do not need to specify this segment, and you cannot override the fixed value. 
	Activity codes are now supported. Please specify your 4-character alphanumeric activity code as the last segment of your account code. The activity will default to "0000" if not specified. You must specify a known activity as defined in the Chart of Accounts COA Segment Listing. 
	Example values are:  
	Unit (100 – 900)
	Division (1000 – 6915)
	Organization (1005 – 9999)
	Location (0001 – 9020)
	Fund Type (100 – 999)
	Business Line (0500 – 9999)
	Account will default to 74103
	Activity Code, if left blank, will default to 0000
o	Project String 
	The project code consists of 8 required parts. Specify all the parts of your project account code below, separating each part with a period (.).
	The project code parts are: 
	Project.Task.Unit.Division.Organization.Location.FundType.BusinessLine
	The Unit.Division.Organization parts are sometimes concatenated into a single segment. Both forms are accepted here. 
5.	Click Create. 
Managing your payment account
1.	Log in to the Software Portal with your NetID and password. 
2.	Under the My Account drop-down, select My Payment Accounts. 
3.	Click Show Details next to the account you want to manage.
Payment Accounts may be disabled by unchecking the Enabled. This does not affect any active subscriptions on the account, but it prevents the account from incurring any new subscription charges. This allows you to design the account's access profile in a vacuum. Otherwise, a mistake in designing the access profile could result in unintended charges.
You'll have the following sections:
•	
o	Details: You can create a nickname for the account or update the account number.
o	Delegated Payment Managers: They have the same access as the Payment Account Owner, except they cannot create Payment Accounts.
o	Payment Account Users: Allows you to assign access to specific individuals, enabling them to use the account to subscribe to software, but only for their own use. They will be able to place orders for any monthly subscription.
o	Subscriber Expenses:  
	Displays a list of individuals with a monthly subscription using this payment account, along with the Product, Cost, Start Date, and OIT Order #. This is searchable by person's name/NetID and by product name.
	You can click on Export to download a .csv file of the current subscriptions being charged to the account.
	You can cancel individual subscriptions on this list by clicking Cancel on the appropriate line. The cancel button initiates the cancellation process. You must read and acknowledge the risk before submitting your cancellation request.
How to subscribe
You may order on behalf of someone else by doing the following:
1.	Log in to the Software Portal and find the software you want to subscribe someone to. 
2.	On the Software's Product Page, click on Get Product...
3.	Under Monthly Subscription, click Subscribe... 
o	If there is no Monthly Subscription option, then the software is unavailable for this payment option. 
4.	In the drop-down under Payment Account, choose the account to be charged. You will only see accounts that you have been given access to. 
5.	Under Choose your recipients, enter the NetID of the individual(s) you want to subscribe to and select their name from the list.  
o	User accounts with (-adm) must not be used.
6.	Confirm that the information under Cost is correct, then click Subscribe. 
If you receive an error, please email software@rutgers.edu with a screenshot.
How to transfer orders from one Payment Account to another
Important: All Payment Accounts must be created in the University Software Portal by a Payment Account Owner before requesting the transfer of existing orders.
Who Can Request a Transfer
Requests must be submitted by either:
•	The Payment Account Owner, or
•	A Delegated Payment Account Manager
How to Submit a Request
To transfer orders between Payment Accounts, submit a request via email to: software@rutgers.edu with the Subject line: Software Portal Payment Account Change for Existing Orders
The email request must include all of the following details:
•	Originating (current) Payment Account
•	Destination (new) Payment Account 
•	The destination Payment Account must already exist and be active in the Software Portal.
•	NetID(s) and the corresponding product(s) to be moved
Requests that are missing any required information noted above may be delayed.
How to cancel subscriptions from your payment account 
Before cancellation, ensure that the user has downloaded and backed up any necessary data/files from the software, as they will all be deleted when your subscription is canceled. 
1.	Log in to the Software Portal with your NetID and password. 
2.	Under the My Account drop-down, select My Payment Accounts. 
3.	Click Show Details next to the account you want to manage.
4.	Click on Subscriber Expenses.
5.	You'll see a list of who has a monthly subscription using this payment account, as well as the Product, Cost, Start, and OIT Order #. This is searchable by person's name/NetID and by product name.
6.	You can cancel individual subscriptions on this list by clicking Cancel on the appropriate line. 
FAQs
When does the monthly subscription get billed?  
Monthly subscriptions are billed in arrears, meaning charges for subscriptions active in one month are billed the following month. For example, if a subscription starts in January, the billing entry will appear sometime in February.
If I cancel, when do I lose access?
When a monthly subscription is canceled, you retain access until the end of that calendar month. 
Is there a prorated refund if I cancel mid-month?
There are no refunds for monthly subscriptions. If canceled mid-month, you retain access until the end of that calendar month. 
If a person's subscription is canceled and resubscribed in the same month, is the GL or Project String charged twice? 
Yes
Can I get a report of active subscriptions?
Yes. You can view the current list of subscriptions on the Software Portal under 'My Payment Accounts'. Here you can cancel user subscriptions or export a CSV file of all current ones. Account managers will also receive an alert when someone starts or cancels a monthly subscription using one of your accounts.
Can we use a Project String?
Yes, as of April 2026.
Are subscriptions canceled automatically if the user is no longer in my department or at the university?
No, subscriptions will be billed until canceled by the Payment Account Owner, Delegated Payment Account Manager, or the Payment Account User.  Reports should be run and reviewed for users who are no longer with your department or the university.
How do we transfer a subscription?
There is no need to transfer the monthly subscription; simply cancel and place a new order for the user.
How do I transfer ownership of my Payment Account(s) to another person?
Email software@rutgers.edu with the subject line "Software Portal Payment Account ownership transfer” and include the GL or Project string(s), your name and NetID, also the name and NetID of the new owner.
" KB0011673 Software Portal Help Purchasing software on the Software Portal KB0013686 Software Portal Help Software Portal Privacy Policy "
Our Commitment to Privacy 
This Privacy Policy was developed as an extension of our commitment to provide the Rutgers community with quality service and significantly reduced pricing on popular software packages. The policy is designed to assist you in understanding how we collect, use, and protect the personal information you provide to us. This statement will be continuously assessed against any new content or changes to current content on our site.
On Information That We Collect 
When you visit the University Software Portal, you may provide us with personal information. Information that may be collected include your name, email address, mailing address, phone number and departmental affiliation.
On Disclosure of Information to Outside Parties 
We do not disclose any personal information that is provided to us to outside parties. We make our best effort to protect the privacy of anyone and everyone who signs into the University Software Portal.
On Using the Information Provided to Us 
We use personal information for purposes of administering our business activities and providing customer service. Occasionally, we may also use the information we collect to notify you about important changes to the website, new services, and special offerings we think you may find valuable.
On External Sites Linking to the Software Portal 
We are not responsible for the practices employed by other websites linked to or from the University Software Portal nor the information or content contained therein.
" KB0013687 Software Portal Help Software Portal Refund Policy "
In most cases, software purchased through the University Software Portal may not be returned due to licensing restrictions.
Since most software packages sold through the portal are available for direct download, the manufacturer prevents us from accepting returns of the software.
Returns may be granted for other extenuating circumstances by emailing software@rutgers.edu within 10 business days of receipt. Please include your order number with your request.
In the case that a refund is issued to you, the form of your refund will be as follows:
•	If you paid by internal purchase order, the account that was used for the order will be credited with the refund amount.
•	If you paid by credit card, there will be a credit back to your card.
 
" KB0013830 Software Portal Help Transferring term subscriptions from the Software Portal "
Please email software@rutgers.edu when someone is no longer associated with their department and needs to have their subscription(s) transferred to someone else. Include the required information noted below based on the product. If your product is not listed below, please refer to the instructions on how to transfer non-subscription Licenses on the Software Portal. 
Microsoft Products (Audio Conferencing, Power Apps, Power Automate, Power BI, Visio, Project, Teams, etc)
Please include in your email:
•	Product name(s)
•	First name, Last name, and NetID of the person no longer associated with their department
•	First name, Last name, and NetID of the person who will receive the subscription(s)
Note: They will not be notified automatically. It is the responsibility of the requestor to inform the new individual to review the Software Portal help section to access their software. 
GraphPad
Please include in your email:
•	Product name
•	First name, Last name, and NetID of the person no longer associated with their department
•	First name, Last name, and NetID of the person who will receive the subscription(s)
Smartsheet
Please include in your email:
•	Product name
•	First name, Last name, and NetID of the person no longer associated with their department 
o	If this person owns any sheets or dashboards, please provide the First name, Last name, and NetID of the person to who they should be bulk transferred. 
•	First name, Last name, and NetID of the person who will receive the subscription.
BioRender
Please include in your email:
•	Product name
•	First name, Last name, and NetID of the person no longer associated with their department
•	First name, Last name, and NetID of the person who will receive the subscription
Note: They will not be notified automatically. It is the responsibility of the requestor to inform the new individual to visit the Rutgers BioRender portal page and log in using their NetID@rutgers.edu.
Lucid Suite
Please include in your email:
•	Product name
•	First name, Last name, and NetID of the person no longer associated with their department
•	First name, Last name, and NetID of the person who will receive the subscription
" KB0011615 Software Portal Help Updating Personal Information on the Software Portal KB0013904 SSL Certificates Current SSL Certificates "
Table of Contents
•	Certificates 
o	Types of Certificates Available
o	Generating a Certificate Request using OpenSSL
•	Requesting a non-Rutgers domain
•	Requesting Code Signing Certificates 
o	Important Changes to code-signing
o	Key Attestation
o	Details to provide
•	Domain Control Validation 
o	Email DCV
o	DNS DCV
o	File-based DCV
o	Wildcard domains
•	Automation with ACME 
o	Reasons to Automate
o	Automation Resources
o	How to get integrated with InCommon
 
Certificates
Types of Certificates Available
•	SSL/TLS Certificates
•	Extended Validation (EV) and Anchor Certificates
•	Client (Personal) Certificates
•	Code Signing Certificates
•	IGTF Server Certificates (Interoperable Global Trust Federation)
•	ECC (Elliptical Curve Cryptography) Certificates
More information can be found on the InCommon Certificate Service Home page.
Generating a Certificate Request using OpenSSL
Consult with the documentation for your web server to determine the preferred procedure for generating a certificate signing request (CSR).
To use OpenSSL to generate a CSR, first ensure it is installed: Get OpenSSL
Using RSA 2048 bit
openssl req -new -newkey rsa:2048 -nodes -keyout myhost_private.key -out myhost_request.csr

Using ECDSA
openssl ecparam -name secp384r1 -genkey -out myhost_private.key
openssl req -new -key myhost_private.key -out myhost_request.csr

Comparing Algorithms
Compare ECDSA vs RSA
Details to include in the CSR
Please note that some of these details must be specified exactly as-is to meet the security requirements of the certificate issuing authority.
•	Country Name 
o	You must specify “US”
•	State or Province Name 
o	You must specify “New Jersey”
•	Locality Name 
o	Specify the city, e.g. “New Brunswick”
•	Organization Name 
o	You must specify “Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey”
•	Organization Unit Name 
o	Specify your department e.g. “Office of Information Technology”
•	Common Name 
o	This is the host domain that will be identified/secured by the certificate e.g. “myhost.rutgers.edu”
•	Email Address 
o	This is the contact email address e.g. “serveradmin@myhost.rutgers.edu“
Requesting a non-Rutgers domain
To request a non-Rutgers.edu domain be added (e.g., “scarletknights.com” or “orbit-lab.org”), contact ssl_support@oit.rutgers.edu with the following information.
This request can take up to 4 business days.
The Whois records MUST reference “Rutgers” or it will not be able to be added to our agreement.
•	Domain name
•	Requester
•	Department
•	Department Organization ID
Once the domain is approved, we will initiate the Domain Control Validation (DCV). Please see the Domain Control Validation section below for more information.
Requesting Code Signing Certificates
To request a Code Signing Cert, contact ssl_support@oit.rutgers.edu with the information below.
This request can take up to 2 business days.
You will receive an invitation via email.
Important Changes to code-signing
As of June 1, 2023, a hardware security module that supports key attestation is required for code-signing.
Sectigo recommends a Yubikey 5 FIPS series.
Key Attestation
You must provide a key attestation when making a new code-signing certificate request. 
Details to provide
Note: The email address defaults to the domain being requested and cannot be changed.
•	Organization
•	Department
•	Domain
•	Email Address
•	Term
•	Full Name
•	Contact Email
•	InCommon Certificates
Domain Control Validation
Domain Control Validation (DCV) is a way to verify that the person requesting a certificate actually has control of the domain in the request. This protects against malicious action against a domain.
Sectigo provides 3 DCV methods: Email, DNS, and file-based. Read the fully detailed explanation on the InCommon Certificate Service Home page.
Email DCV
Requires you to have access to one of a set of pre-defined email addresses associated with your domain. e.g. admin@mydomain.org
DNS DCV
Requires you to have access to the DNS record for your domain. You will need to enter a TXT record with a specific hash value that is generated by Sectigo.
File-based DCV
Requires your HTTP/S server to make a specifically named file available with a specific hash value within the file.
Wildcard domains
To request a wildcard certificate (e.g. *.mydomain.com), you must use the Email or DNS based DCV methods.
DCV is required annually for each domain, including rutgers.edu. However, if you are requesting a rutgers.edu certificate (e.g. myorg.rutgers.edu), you will be able to take advantage of DCV having already been completed for rutgers.edu.
If you are requesting a non-rutgers.edu certificate (e.g., mydomain.org), you will need to complete DCV annually alongside your certificate request.
Please consider which method you want to undertake when requesting DCV for your domain. This helps with turnaround time.
DCV remains a very hands-on way to validate control, and you will be required to be in active communication with a Rutgers OIT member for the entire process to complete it in a timely manner.
Automation with ACME
The Automated Certificate Management Environment is a protocol for software agents such as certbot to use to request, receive, revoke, and install certificates in your server environment.
Reasons to Automate
•	“Set it and forget it” 
o	Well, you should still check on it, but it’s easy to ask certbot what’s going on.
•	No more expired certificates 
o	Avoid the drama of browser certificate errors on your web site
•	Future proof 
o	You may think it’s okay to manually renew certs annually, but what happens when the industry moves to shorter expirations of 3 months?
•	Automate the entire process 
o	If you have a non-Rutgers domain, you’ll need to complete Domain Control Validation annually as well. ACME allows you to validate domain control at the time of request if you use a supported DNS provider.
Automation Resources
•	What is Acme?
•	certbot docs
•	Certify Certificate Manager
•	ACME clients on Github
How to get integrated with InCommon
•	Request an ACME account from OIT via ssl_support@oit.rutgers.edu 
o	This will create a tracking incident
o	The account will be given permission to manage certificates for a specific set of domains. For direct subdomains of rutgers.edu, each domain must be specified individually
•	You will receive your account credentials to integrate with your chosen ACME client.
•	Simply contact ssl_support@oit.rutgers.edu to whitelist additional domains if needed.
" KB0019578 SSL Certificates InCommon Certificate Service Transition FAQ "
Table of Contents
•	Why is the platform provider changing?
•	What is changing?
•	Who is InCommon?
•	What will happen to my certificates?
•	What will happen to my ACME clients?
•	What do I need to do right now?
•	What do I need to do later?
•	What is ACME?
•	Why ACME?
•	How do I get enrolled with ACME?
•	What is Domain Control Validation (DCV)?
•	How can I automate DCV?
•	What is the current certificate lifetime?
•	What is happening to certificate lifetimes?
•	Where can I get the CA root and intermediate certificates?
•	What resources are available to help with this transition?
Why is the platform provider changing?
After careful evaluation, InCommon has decided to transition from our current platform provider, Sectigo, to CertiNext for our certificate authority (CA) services. This transition will be better positioned in InCommon to address broader changes in the certificate industry and will be completed by July 17, 2026.
What is changing?
•	InCommon has ended its partnership with Sectigo and formed a partnership with CertiNext to provide SSL Certificates
•	Access to the Sectigo Certificate Manager (SCM) portal will end on July 17, 2026
•	All certificate requests will need to be processed through the CertiNext platform
•	Code-signing certificates are no longer included for free
Who is InCommon?
InCommon is an organization that bridges peer Universities and Colleges for Identity Management. 
What will happen to my certificates?
The expiration dates for certificates signed by Sectigo will be honored. However, certificates will no longer auto-renew.
What will happen to my ACME clients?
You will need to reconfigure your ACME clients using new EAB credentials issued from the CertiNext platform.
What do I need to do right now?
1.	Review the Sectigo/InCommon certificates you have deployed and renew them as soon as possible if their expiration date is within the next 6 months.
2.	Extend your certificates to the maximum lifetime 
o	If you have a cert expiring before Dec 1, 2026, you should renew now to maximize the amount of time you have available to transition to ACME.
o	Follow existing procedures to renew your certificates.
o	Existing ACME clients currently deployed should be engaged to force renewal of transaction certificates in their managed environment.
What do I need to do later?
Existing ACME clients currently deployed will need to be re-registered with new EAB credentials issued from the new CertiNext platform.
Hosts with certificates not currently managed should be transitioned to ACME on the new platform. i.e., automate your certificate management.
What is ACME?
Automated Certificate Management Environment, or ACME, is a protocol for requesting, renewing, and revoking SSL certificates (i.e., certificate management) through a Certificate Authority (e.g., CertiNext).
Why ACME?
In short, because the CA/Browser Forum that drives internet security policy has deemed automation of certificates and domain validation to be the most secure and reliable path forward
How do I get enrolled with ACME?
Email ssl_support@oit.rutgers.edu to request an ACME account. You will be provided with "External Account Binding" credentials.
Choose an ACME client that is appropriate for your hosting environment. We recommend:
•	Linux 
o	certbot (github)
o	acme.sh
o	lego
•	Windows 
o	simple-acme
o	Certify the Web (paid license)
What is Domain Control Validation (DCV)?
DCV is a way for a Certificate Authority to verify that you own the domain associated with the certificate you're requesting.
How can I automate DCV?
•	DCV can be completed using a file on the host if that file can be accessed on the public internet. 
o	This is the most common way to automate and is supported by many ACME clients.
o	Configure your ACME client to manage your web server, and it can retrieve a token from the Certificate Authority and automatically place it at the correct location hosted by your web server.
•	DNS-based validation is also supported.
What is the current certificate lifetime?
199 days or ~6 months
What is happening to certificate lifetimes?
Certificate lifetimes and Domain Control Validation lifetimes are shortening annually until 2029, when they will be 45 days and 10 days, respectively.
This is unrelated to the InCommon partnership agreement.
The industry wants automation, and you are encouraged to automate.
Where can I get the CA root and intermediate certificates?
InCommon CAs (Confluence)
You will need the new Certinext InCommon intermediate CA and the emSign intermediates in your systems, but all TLS certs are trusted by browsers and OS vendors.
What resources are available to help with this transition?
InCommon Certificate Services Home (Confluence)
CertiNext REST API v2 Swagger UI documentation
Refer to the InCommon Transition FAQ for the latest information and resources.
" KB0019646 SSL Certificates Review and Renew SSL Certificates "
Learn how to review the details and submit renewal requests for InCommon SSL certificates in your hosted environment.
Please note that the information herein is intended as a general guideline, and it cannot account for variations across hosted environments where certificates may reside.
View Certificate Details of a (public) website
Using a web browser
1.	Access a website via HTTPS. 
o	e.g. https://www.rutgers.edu
2.	Click the shield/lock/menu icon next to the URL in the address bar. 
o	Firefox: Click Connection secure > More Site Information > Security > View Certificate
o	Chrome: Click Connection is secure > Certificate is valid
o	Edge: Click Connection is secure > Certificate icon
o	Other: Follow a similar procedure as above
3.	Examine the Validity Period and Issuer in the Certificate Viewer window to identify the certificate's expiration date and issuer.
Using openssl
See the OpenSSL s_client reference for detailed info.
Example:
HOST=www.rutgers.edu

openssl s_client -connect "$HOST:443" -servername "$HOST" </dev/null 2>/dev/null  | openssl x509 -noout -issuer -enddate
Expected response, showing the issuer and the expiration date (as notAfter).
issuer=C = US, O = Internet2, CN = InCommon RSA Server CA 2
notAfter=Jan 26 23:59:59 2027 GMT
Renew your Certificate
If your issuer is Internet2 or InCommon, renew your certificate to extend the maximum lifetime to 199 days.
via self-service
Please follow the current documentation for renewing via self-service.
via ACME
Follow the instructions for force-renewing certificates managed by the ACME clients in your environment. Here's a sample for some popular clients:
•	certbot 
o	Follow certbot documentation on renewals, with special attention toward re-creating and updating existing certificates
•	simple-acme (backward compatible with win-acme) 
o	Follow instructions on renewal management with special attention toward the --force switch documented under automatic renewals
Troubleshooting
•	AI tools can be very useful for quickly identifying configuration options that align with intricacies in your environment. It is encouraged to use these tools by providing full context when troubleshooting.
•	Email ssl_support@oit.rutgers.edu for additional assistance.
" KB0012443 Student Information Systems Accessing your term bill "
If you are a student or an incoming student, go to the Rutgers accounting website and click Pay My Bill.
If you have any questions regarding the term bill, we suggest contacting One Stop at (848) 445-4636 or via their online contact form. 
" KB0012444 Student Information Systems Accessing your transcript "
If you are an alumnus, you can only request your official transcript.
Unofficial online transcripts are intended only for current Rutgers students. To access your unofficial transcript as a student:
1.	Navigate to the transcripts page.
2.	Sign in with your Rutgers NetID and NetID password.
3.	Click Print Full Transcript at the top right corner.
4.	Save the transcript in PDF form. You may also print a copy.
" KB0012497 Student Information Systems Downloading and installing the TN3270 emulator for RUtAdmin (macOS) "
Mocha TN3270 is a program that allows you to connect to a system called RUtAdmin at Rutgers University. This software is free for Rutgers University Faculty and Staff on the Rutgers Software portal.
*NOTE* If you require upload or download file transfer capabilities, you will need QWS3270, which can be purchased directly from Jolly Giant, as the MochaSoft emulator does not have this functionality.
To install this program, you must have administrator access to your computer. If you do not, contact your local IT Staff who do have this access.
Downloading the Mocha TN3270 Emulator
1.	Go to the Mocha TN3270 page on the Rutgers Software Portal.
2.	Select the Mocha TN3270 for macOS link in the product listing.
3.	On the page that opens, click the Download button. 
Installing TN3270
1.	Open the file from the Downloads folder on your computer. Once opened, click and drag the TN3270 Icon to the Application Folder.
2.	Open the Applications folder and double-click on the TN3270 icon to start the program. 
3.	If this is the first time the program is being opened there will b,e an alert that comes up warning that the program was downloaded from the Internet. Click Open to start the program.
4.	Once the program is open, go to the Toolbar and select Settings > License.
5.	Go to the Mocha page on the Software Portal. Look under the Getting Mocha section to get the information to enter the following: 
o	This product is registered to: Enter the License Name listed on the Software Portal page.
o	License Key: Enter the Activation Key listed on the Software Portal page for your operating system. 
o	Click OK.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	On the TN3270 program, click Open.
7.	Enter the following setting information, then click OK:
o	Server IP address and Port: rutadmin.rutgers.edu
o	Port: 992
o	Enable SSL: Checked off
o	Send Keep-Alive: Checked off

Error! Filename not specified.
8.	At the login screen, enter your RUtAdmin UserID and RutAdmin Password.

     Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Enter your PRN Number and press Enter.

     Error! Filename not specified.
10.	You should now be logged into the RUTAdmin System.
" KB0012498 Student Information Systems Downloading and installing the TN3270 emulator for RUtAdmin (Windows) "
Mocha TN3270 is a program that allows you to connect to a system called RUtAdmin at Rutgers University. This software is free for Rutgers University Faculty and Staff on the Rutgers Software portal.
*NOTE* If you require upload or download file transfer capabilities, you will need QWS3270, which can be purchased directly from Jolly Giant, as the MochaSoft emulator does not have this functionality.
To install this program, you must have administrator access to your computer. If you do not, contact your local IT Staff who do have this access.
Downloading the Mocha TN3270 Emulator
1.	Go to the Mocha TN3270 page on the Rutgers Software Portal.
2.	Select the Mocha TN3270 for Windows link in the product listing.
3.	On the page that opens, click the Download button. 
Installing TN3270
1.	Find the .msi file in the Downloads folder on your computer. Click on the file to start the installation process. 
2.	At the Welcome Screen, click on Next.
3.	Read the License Agreement. Then select I accept the terms in the License Agreement, and click Next.
4.	Select the location on your computer where you want the program to be installed. This can be left as is if the program should be installed in the default location. Click Next.
5.	Click Install to install the program.
6.	Once the install process is finished, select Launch Mocha TN3270 for Windows 7/8/10/11 and click Finish.
7.	On the window that launches, click Register.

     Error! Filename not specified.
8.	Go to the Mocha page on the Software Portal. Look under the Getting Mocha section to get the information to enter the following: 
o	This product is registered to: Enter the License Name listed on the Software Portal page.
o	License Key: Enter the Activation Key listed on the Software Portal page for your operating system. 
o	Click OK.

     Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Now the program is registered. Click OK to continue to the program.

     Error! Filename not specified.
10.	Go to File ---> Edit/New Session. Enter the following information:
o	Name: rutadmin.rutgers.edu
o	IBM Mainframe IP Address: rutadmin.rutgers.edu
o	Port Number: 992
o	SSL: Select the Check-Box
o	Send keep alive: Select the Check-Box
o	Connect to this IBM Mainframe on Program Start: Select the Check-Box (Optional)
11.	Click Connect.

     Error! Filename not specified.
12.	At the login screen, enter your RUtAdmin UserID and RutAdmin Password.

     Error! Filename not specified.
13.	Now enter your PRN number and press Enter.

     Error! Filename not specified.
14.	You should now be logged into the system.
" KB0012499 Student Information Systems Dropping a course on WebReg "
1.	Ensure that you're within the permitted period to drop a course by checking the Rutgers Academic Calendar.
2.	Go to Webreg.
3.	On the left-hand side, click on WebReg login for Rutgers students.
4.	Once you have logged in with your NetID, you will see a list of your registered courses.
5.	On the right of each course, there is a small button labeled Drop. Once pressed, it will allow you to drop your course.
Please note, as a full-time student, you will only be able to drop a course if you stay above 12 credits. If this is an issue, you must speak to an academic dean to override this requirement.
For more information, please contact the registrar's office using their online contact form or call 848-445-7000. For Summer or Winter Session registration, please call 848-932-7565.
 
" KB0012511 Student Information Systems Export a class email roster using Rosters & Electronic Grading Information System (REGIS) "
The Rutgers Electronic Grading and Information System (REGIS) allows instructors to access class email address rosters and export them into their spreadsheet software. Follow the instructions below to access your class email rosters.
1.	Go to REGIS.
2.	Select Rosters & Electronic Grading Information System (REGIS).

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Log in with your NetID and NetID password.
4.	Enter your course information.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Export your course roster by selecting Excel/CSV.

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Once downloaded, you may open Microsoft Excel or another spreadsheet viewer to view your course information.
" KB0012513 Student Information Systems Finding your Rutgers ID number "
1.	Navigate to this Rutgers ID Query page.
2.	Fill out the appropriate fields and click submit to receive your Rutgers Student ID number.
If you have any questions or concerns, please contact the Registrar's office by calling 848-445-7000. 
" KB0012572 Student Information Systems Installing and configuring the QWS3270 secure client "
Table of Contents
•	Where do I get the QWS3270 Secure software?
•	Installing QWS3270 Secure
•	Recommended configuration settings
•	Troubleshooting tips 
o	Cursor blink issue
o	Correcting the faded print issue
•	Keymapping and color change information 
o	Keyboard mapping
o	Color changing
•	Additional support
Where do I get the QWS3270 Secure software?
The QWS3270 emulator is no longer available on software.rutgers.edu. There is a free client called Mochasoft TN3270 available on the software portal. Instructions on installing and setting up these programs can be found at:
•	Downloading and Installing the TN3270 Emulator for RUtAdmin (Mac OS)
•	Downloading and Installing the TN3270 Emulator for RUtAdmin (Windows)
Unlike the QWS3270 program, these programs do not support uploading or downloading files. If you require file transfer capabilities, you will need QWS3270, which can be purchased directly from Jolly Giant.
Note: Due to security updates on our mainframe systems, the required supported Operating System for connecting via QWS3270 Secure is Microsoft Windows 7 or later.
Installing QWS3270 Secure
For up-to-date instructions on installing QWS3270, follow the instructions listed on Atlassian's website.
Recommended configuration settings
1.	Open the program.
2.	Click New.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Type QWS3270 Secure, then click OK.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Fill out the following settings:
o	Host Name: rutadmin.rutgers.edu
o	Port Number: 992
o	HLLAPI Session ID: None
o	Terminal Type: IBM-3279-2-E

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Terminal Type: The default is IBM-3278-2.
o	This gets you a 4-color, 24-line by 80-column screen (the 24x80 screen is also known as Model 2, hence the ‘-2’ at the end).
o	If you want 7-color (which gets you yellow, pink, and turquoise in addition to red, green, blue, and white), you need to tack a ‘-E’ onto the end. Thus, if you want 24x80 with 7 colors, choose IBM-3279-2-E.
o	If you want more lines, you can choose a Model 3 (32 lines, indicated by the ‘-3’) or a Model 4 (43 lines, indicated by the ‘-4’). The Model 5 (‘-5) will give you additional columns, as well.
6.	Fill out the following Security Options, then click OK:
o	Enable Secure Connection: Checked
o	SSL/TLS Protocol Version: TLSv1
o	Cipher Options: Strong

     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Set File Transfer as below and click OK:
o	File Transfer (Default)

     Error! Filename not specified.
o	File Transfer (Recommended Configuration)

     Error! Filename not specified.
8.	Click Connect.

     Error! Filename not specified.
9.	To log on, you must use your Rutadmin User ID (Account number) and your Rutadmin Password.
     
     Error! Filename not specified.
Troubleshooting tips
Cursor blink issue
When you are logged into a session (either QWS3270 Secure or RUID test) and change the cursor to Solid instead of blinking, it reverts to a blinking cursor in subsequent sessions. Use this procedure to set the cursor permanently to Solid:
1.	Click on the QWS3270 Secure icon on your desktop.
2.	When the session opens, DO NOT select a session from the drop-down menu. Click the Cancel button instead.
3.	Click Options on the menu bar at the top, then select Session.
4.	Under Display on the Options List, click Cursor on the left-hand side.
5.	In the two Cursor Style boxes, click the Solid radio buttons under Normal Mode and Insert Mode at the top.
6.	Click the Apply button on the lower right-hand side.
This will permanently set the cursor to Solid.
Correcting the faded print issue
Please note: Color will be spelled colour (Canadian spelling) throughout the program options
These instructions address faded print issues when printing a Rutadmin screen using QWS3270 Secure:
1.	In the menu bar at the top of the screen, select Options.
2.	From the drop-down menu, select Session.
3.	In the session menu, select Print on the left-hand side.
4.	Go to the Colour Options box at the bottom of the screen, in the middle.
5.	Select Black & white.
6.	Click the Apply button in the bottom right-hand corner.
7.	Click the OK button.
Keymapping and color change information
The following instructions inform how to customize the keyboard mapping and colors for QWS3270 Secure.
Keyboard mapping
1.	Click Options on the top menu bar.
2.	Click Keyboard.
3.	Highlight the key that you would like to change.
4.	Click the Remap Key on the right.
5.	From the drop-down menu, select the desired option.
6.	Repeat for other keys you would like to change.
Color changing
1.	Click Options on the top menu bar.
2.	Click Session.
3.	Click Colours under the Display heading.
4.	Select the colors you want to use.
Additional support
The following groups are available for additional support with installing and configuring the QWS3270 secure client:
•	Rutadmin Account Management 
o	eas_systemaccess@email.rutgers.edu
o	848-445-7544
•	Secure 3270 Software Procurement 
o	software@mssg.rutgers.edu
o	848-445-6950 x6034, x6048
•	Secure 3270 Installation Support 
o	help@oit.rutgers.edu
o	848-445-4357
" KB0012636 Student Information Systems Registering for classes "
WebReg Login
Students may log in to WebReg using their Rutgers NetID and NetID Password.
Registration deadlines vary depending on your current course credits, your status as an undergraduate or graduate student, and/or your department.
Registration deadline schedules may be found at the following links, depending on your current campus:
•	New Brunswick Schedule
•	Camden Registrar
•	Newark Registrar
For any scheduling questions or concerns, please contact the Office of the New Brunswick Registrar by calling 848-445-7000 or visiting the OneStop portal.
For students not affiliated with New Brunswick, please contact the Registrar at your campus using the links above.
Certain classes may not be available for registration, depending on your department. Please reach out to your departmental advisor for assistance with registering for these courses.
" KB0016434 Student IT Support Student Streaming Plans & Discounts "
Many streaming providers offer free content and student subscription discounts, which help reduce entertainment costs. Although sign-ups and plans vary, most streaming providers only require verification of current enrollment at a college or university for students to be eligible for plans.? 
Free Streaming Services 
Here are some of the best free TV and live-streaming services as of June 2023. 
Amazon Freevee 
Crackle 
Pluto TV? 
Roku Channel 
Tubi TV 
Student Subscription Plans 
Here are some of the best streaming student subscription plans as of December 2024.? 
Amazon Prime Student 
Eligible students can get a free 6-month Amazon Prime trial and a 50% discount on monthly costs. For $7.49/month, Prime Student includes access to Prime Video, Prime Delivery, Amazon Music and Photos, and more.? 
Apple Music Student Plan with free Apple TV+ 
Eligible students can get a free trial of Apple Music, free access to Apple TV+, and a $5.99/month rate for both following the trial period. 
Hulu's Student Discount? 
The student plan offers up to 75% off regular monthly subscription costs. Students can stream Hulu(With Ads) for $1.99/month. 
Paramount Plus 
Students get an Essential monthly plan for 25% off at $5.99/month. 
Peacock Premium
Eligible students receive Peacock Premium for?$1.99/month for 12 months. 
Spotify Premium Student 
Students can get free music, movies, and television for one 1-month and $5.99/month following the trial. The plan also includes access to Hulu(With Ads). 
YouTube Premium 
Eligible students can get a 1-month free trial and a $7.99/month rate following the trial period. 
Additional Information
Providers may require accounts, discontinue, or change plans. Students should check for current offers when searching and signing up for content streaming services. 
" KB0016390 Synchronous Meeting BigBlueButton – How To Share Recorded Conferences "
After a BigBlueButton conference has ended, it's not possible to add students who weren't initially invited. However, you can download the conference video, upload it to Kaltura, and then share the recording with your course so that all students can access it.
Download your BigBlueButton Conference Recording
1.	Log in to Canvas.
2.	Navigate to your course.
3.	In the course navigation, click BigBlueButton.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Expand the Concluded Conferences list.
5.	Click on the conference title to reveal the recording.
6.	Click Video.
7.	A new browser tab will appear.
8.	In the new browser tab, use your mouse to right-click on the video window to reveal the menu.
9.	Click Save Video As... to save the video as an MP4 file.

Error! Filename not specified.
Share the video with your course
Now that you have the video file, you can upload the video to My Kaltura Media in Canvas and share it with your course. Please review How do I add Kaltura content to my Canvas course.
" KB0016622 Synchronous Meeting BigBlueButton – Troubleshooting Audio/Video Issues "
BigBlueButton by Blindside Networks is a web conferencing system designed for online learning. BigBlueButton enables the sharing of audio, slides, chat, video, and desktop applications between instructors,  students, and invited guests.
Audio/Video Issues
Audio
For a more detailed tutorial, see the BigBlueButton setting up audio tutorial video.
•	Verify you are using the correct equipment, it is plugged in, and selected as the channel to use.
•	Toggle sharing off and on using the headphone icon in the upper left, and go through the audio wizard again.
•	Review the BigBlueButton help article on how to join audio, including the troubleshooting tips at the end.
•	If you continue to have audio issues, connect to audio by dialing the phone number.
Video
To record a conference, the box for Enable recording for this conference must be checked when creating the conference. This only makes it possible to record, and does not actually start the recording.
Error! Filename not specified.
•	If the "Enable recordings" option was not checked when creating a conference, you can click the gear icon to the right of the conference and select Edit to enable recordings.
o	This can only be done before a conference has started. Once a conference has begun, changing this setting will not take effect.
•	The recording of the conference can be started and stopped by clicking the "Record button" icon at the top bar of the conference.

Error! Filename not specified.
•	Recordings will be available after the conference has concluded and the recording is processed. Processing time varies based on the length of the recording and server load.
•	Recordings can be accessed by clicking the name of the conference under "Concluded Conferences," which will display the length of the recording in hh: mm format, and the view button on the right to open the recording in another browser tab.
•	Once opened, the recording can be downloaded by right-clicking on the recording and selecting Save video as.
•	Since the recording is hosted on blindsidenetworks.com and not Canvas, you can also share the URL with anyone to view the recording. No login is required.
Additional resources
•	BigBlueButton Overview
•	Moderator/Presenter Tutorial (Video)
•	Setting up audio (Video)
Troubleshooting tips
Unable to see an active conference to join?
•	Verify with the instructor/meeting creator that the participant has been invited to the conference.
•	Check to see if the conference is being hosted on a group page instead of the main conference page.
Where can I find out info about browser-specific issues with screen sharing?
•	Blindside Networks maintains a knowledge base about BigBlueButton, including many browser-specific issues when presenters share their screen. 
" KB0016298 Synchronous Meeting Cisco Webex in Canvas – Setup for Instructors "
This page describes the steps needed to use Webex in Canvas. Instructors will need to complete these steps with every course site.
To use the Webex Integration, Rutgers NetID users will need an existing Rutgers Webex account. Please enable Webex via the Service Activation Portal.
Table of Contents
•	Webex Setup
•	Virtual Meetings 
o	Schedule a Meeting
o	Office Hours
o	Other Recordings
•	Security and Link Sharing
Webex Setup
1.	Click on Cisco Webex in the course navigation. If it is not listed, enable it by managing the course navigation links in course Settings.
2.	In the Setup tab, check the box next to the options you plan to use in your course. You will need to choose your features for every new course site. 
3.	Select your time zone in the drop-down menu and choose Save.

Error! Filename not specified.
Virtual Meetings
Schedule a Meeting
1.	Click Cisco Webex on the course navigation menu.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click the Meetings tab, if not enabled, go to the Setup tab to enable.
3.	Click the Schedule meeting button.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Enter a name for the meeting.
5.	Set the meeting date and time. 
o	Optionally, the Recurrence setting can be enabled if the meeting time is to be repeated.
o	Recurrence pattern (Daily, Weekly, Monthly, Yearly). 
	Daily – Meetings occur at the same time every day.
	Weekly – Choose the day(s) of the week and the meeting cadence.
	Monthly – Choose the date of the month or the day preference.
	Yearly - Choose the date of the month or the day preference.
o	Ends can be set either to a specific date or after a number of meetings. 
6.	Set the Join rules for guests who have not been invited to attend the meeting. It is recommended to check "They wait in the lobby until they're admitted."
7.	Set Audio connection options.
8.	Automatic recording can be enabled when the meeting starts. To ensure the meeting recording is associated with the meeting host, set join rules to "They wait in the lobby until they're admitted.
9.	Click Schedule.
After a meeting is created, it will be listed in your Upcoming tab. You can Start (host), Edit, or Delete a meeting from this tab.
When a Webex session is complete, it will be listed in the Completed tab, and any recordings will be viewable here. Meeting participants will be listed when you click on the meeting name in Completed Meetings.
Office Hours
Office hours are instructor-specific, with the meeting links tied to an instructor’s Webex account. Webex Office hours are not course-specific, so the office hours you set in one course populate all your courses in Canvas. Multiple instructors inside a Canvas course may claim the same time period.
1.	Click Cisco Webex on the course navigation menu.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click the Office Hours tab, if not enabled, go to the Setup tab to enable.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Select the Meeting Duration in increments of 15 minutes.
4.	Select the Meeting Buffer to choose the amount of buffer time before and after a scheduled meeting.
5.	Set the Date Range for when students may schedule office hours.
6.	Set your time zone.
7.	Check the days of the week when you will offer office hours. A time window will appear.
8.	For each day that office hours are to be held, set the start and end times for each period. If you plan on offering 30-minute meetings for each student, you do not have to list incremental availability periods. You may add more availability periods per day.
9.	Scroll down and click Save.
10.	Exceptions: Conflicts may arise during the semester. You may remove office hour availability using Exceptions. 
1.	Click Exceptions.
2.	Select the date of the conflict.
3.	Slide the toggle for the date. This will remove any unclaimed office hour periods from student view.
4.	Click Save.

Error! Filename not specified.
Other Recordings
Other recordings (previously called the recording library) allow you to import any of your Webex recordings and publish them to your classes for students to watch.
1.	Click Cisco Webex on the course navigation menu.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click the Other Recordings tab, if not enabled, go to the Setup tab to enable.
3.	Click Import Webex recordings to add previous meetings not held in your current course. Select a date range to view all meetings held within that time range.
4.	To publish a recording, click Manage, then choose Publish for the course you want to make the video visible to students.
5.	Click the recording name to bring up a new window with the recording password and a link to the recording video.
Security and Link Sharing
Please caution your students against sharing Webex links. Webex links are unique to the participant (student) and the meeting. The Webex link will also include the meeting password. Since the link includes participant information, when a link is shared, then two participants with the same name will appear in the participant panel.
" KB0016623 Synchronous Meeting Comparison of Synchronous Meeting External Apps in Canvas "
This page provides an at-a-glance comparison of the synchronous meeting external apps available in Canvas. To learn more about the features, please review the documentation listed for each external app.
Conference Types & Capabilities	Microsoft Teams    	Cisco Webex    	Zoom    	BigBlueButton
Format	Audio / Video / Sharing	Audio / Video / Sharing	Audio / Video / Sharing	Audio / Video / Sharing
Flavors    	 	 	 	 
 	Ad Hoc	Meetings	Meetings	Meetings
 	 	Events	Webinars	 
 	 	Training	 	 
Maximum attendees per account type	 	 	 	 
Faculty/staff accounts    	1,000 / 20,000 	1,000 / 3,000	500	200
Student accounts	1,000 / 20,000 	1,000 / 3,000	300	200
Shared/departmental accounts	X	X	X	X
Devices Supported	 	 	 	 
Desktop/Laptop	?	?	?	?
Mobile/Tablets	?	?	?	?
Phone Only	VC License	?	?	?
Stationary Videoconferencing	?	?	?	X
Access Features	 	 	 	 
Account Requirements to host a meeting	Rutgers Connect and ScarletMail	Rutgers Webex	Rutgers Zoom	Editing Role in Canvas
Account Requirement to attend the meeting	Advanced options	Role in Canvas or guest URL	Advanced Options	Role in Canvas or guest URL
Co-teachers as alternate meeting hosts	?	Editable at rutgers.webex.com	?	?
Teacher/TA course roles match the host/presenter role	?	?	?	?
Student course role match participant role	Advanced Options	?	?	?
Rutgers Students are able to create meetings	?	X	X 	Yes (May be limited by school or department)
Students are able to use in Canvas Group sites	?	X	X	?
Non-NetID accounts are able to create meetings	X	X	X	?
Waiting rooms	Advanced options	Advanced options	Advanced options	Options
Participant able to join before the host?	?	?	Advanced options	X
Calendar/Scheduling Features	 	 	 	 
Preschedule Meeting with persistent link	?	?	?	X
Office hour scheduler	X	?	X	X
Scheduled office hours appear on the course calendar	X	X	X	X
Scheduled meeting appears on the course calendar	X*	X	?	?
Scheduled meeting information sent to Canvas Inbox	X	X	?	X
Create recurring meetings	Recopy the meeting link    	?	?	X
Invite by course group	Create a differentiated assignment for the course group	X	X	? or Create a meeting in a Canvas Group site
Invite by course section	Create a differentiated assignment for the course group	X	X	?
Invite individual students	Create a differentiated assignment for the course group	X	X	?
Meeting Features	 	 	 	 
In-conference chat	?	?	?	?
Host messages are bolded in chat	X	X	X	?
Screen sharing	?	?	?	?
Document/application sharing	?	?	?	?
Virtual whiteboard shared	?	?	?	?
Breakout rooms	Max 50	Max 100	Max 50 (Chromebooks: N/A)	Yes (24 max)
Self-Select Breakout Rooms	X	X	?	X
Extend Breakout Room duration	X	X	X	?
In-conference polling	?	?	?	?
Max number of users on-screen	49	200	49	#
Gallery View of all web cameras	?	?	?	?
Virtual Background	?	?	?	?
Meeting statistics	Attendance only	Attendance only	Non-HIPAA	?
Shared Notes	?	X	X	?
Recording Features	 	 	 	 
Cloud Recording	?	?	Non-HIPAA	?
Local Recording on Host's Computer	X	?	?	X
Record a hidden meeting with no invitees & publish to the course	X	?	X	X
Restrict access to the recording	X	X	Must publish the recording	Only invitees can view the recording
Customize the Recorded Playback display options	X	Chat, Q&A, Polling, Participants, Transcripts	Recording Views, Transcripts	Participant web camera
No limit on cloud recording capacity	?	?	0.5 GB/user
Retained for 180 days	Recording retained for 2 weeks
Prevent download	Only meeting recorder and organizer	?	?	X
Edit Recordings	In Microsoft Stream	?	?	X
The storage limit for Webex Cloud recordings is 25GB. You can record as many meetings or classes as needed within this capacity limit; however, all recordings have a 3-year retention before they are deleted automatically. It is recommended that you download your course recordings and upload them to Kaltura, which has unlimited storage.
 
Table of Contents
•	Download Webex Cloud Recording From Webex Through Canvas 
•	Upload Webex Cloud Recording to My Kaltura Media
•	More Information on Kaltura
Download Webex Cloud Recording From Webex Through Canvas
1.	From the course menu, choose Cisco Webex.
2.	In the Meetings tab, choose Completed.
3.	Click Recording.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click on the recording.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	A window will pop up showing the Recording password for this meeting. Copy it to your clipboard and choose View recording.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Paste the copied password into the field. Click OK.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	To the right of the meeting name, you will find a symbol to download this meeting video to your desktop. Click to download the video.

Error! Filename not specified.
Upload Webex Cloud Recording to My Kaltura Media
1.	In Canvas, click on My Kaltura Media to access your Kaltura content.
2.	In the top right, click + Create. 
3.	From the drop-down, click Upload.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Upload your Webex cloud recording file using the Select Files or Drag and drop files to upload.
5.	Once a file has been uploaded, you will see a status bar showing its upload progress. Select Edit (1) to change the following options. 
o	Name of the video (2)
o	Add a Description
o	Tags
6.	Click Save (3) to keep any updated options.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Depending on the size of the uploaded file, Kaltura may take up to 24 hours to finish processing it.
More Information on Kaltura
•	How do I add Kaltura content to my Canvas course
•	Add Content to Kaltura Course Gallery
" KB0016345 Synchronous Meeting How to Transfer Zoom Recordings into My Kaltura Media "
Cloud recordings are preserved for 180 days or until policies are changed. It is recommended that you download your course recordings and upload them to Kaltura, which has unlimited storage.
Table of Contents
•	Download Zoom Cloud Recording From Zoom in Canvas
•	Upload Zoom Cloud Recording to My Kaltura Media
•	More Information on Kaltura
Download Zoom Cloud Recording From Zoom in Canvas
1.	From the course menu, choose Zoom.
2.	Click Cloud Recordings. 
3.	Click on the meeting name in the Topic column.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Zoom Cloud Recordings include the Recording (video and audio of the Zoom meeting), Audio-only, or the Transcripts file. Click Download for the version you wish to transfer.
5.	Click Download (A). The recording's passcode will be copied to your clipboard (B). The recording should automatically start downloading. 
o	Note: If your video does not start automatically downloading, play the video (C), then paste the copied recording passcode to click Download at the top right of the Zoom player page. Should you need to view the passcode, click the Eye (D) under the recording.

     Error! Filename not specified.
Upload Zoom Cloud Recording to My Kaltura Media
1.	In Canvas, click on My Kaltura Media to access your Kaltura content.
2.	In the top right, click + Create. 
3.	From the drop-down, pick Upload.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Upload your Zoom cloud recording file using the Select Files or Drag and drop files to upload.
5.	Once a file has been uploaded, you will see a status bar showing its upload progress. Select Edit (1) to change the following options. 
o	Name of the video (2)
o	Add a Description
o	Tags
6.	Click Save (3) to keep any updated options.

     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Depending on the size of the uploaded file, Kaltura may take up to 24 hours to finish processing it.
More Information on Kaltura
•	How do I add Kaltura content to my Canvas course
•	Add Content to Kaltura Course Gallery
" KB0016299 Synchronous Meeting What do I do when I click on Zoom in Canvas and receive an error message? "
When clicking Zoom for the first time, instructors may see an error message indicating an invalid email address.
Error! Filename not specified.
To connect your Canvas account to Zoom, your default email address in Canvas must be in the format of netid@rutgers.edu. An email address with the format netid@domain.rutgers.edu and firstname.lastname@rutgers.edu will cause this error, since Zoom accounts are created as netid@rutgers.edu.
To change your default email address, you must first add another email address as a contact method. Then you can change your default email address in Canvas.
Add your netid@rutgers.edu email address to Canvas
1.	In Global Navigation, click the Account link (1), then click the Settings link (2).

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	In the Email Addresses section, click the Add Email Address link.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Enter your email address as netid@rutgers.edu, e.g., hr1766@rutgers.edu. When you are finished, click Register Email.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Open the email account you just added, then open the confirmation email from Canvas. Click the link in the email to complete the registration of the additional email address. You may have to check your junk mail folder. If you need to resend the confirmation, click the Re-Send Confirmation link.

     Error! Filename not specified.
Set your default email address.
1.	In the Ways to Contact sidebar, under Email Addresses, you can tell which email address is your default by the star icon next to it.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	To set your netid@rutgers.edu email address as the default email address in Canvas, hover over the email address, and a faint star icon will appear. Click the star icon.

     Error! Filename not specified.
To use the Zoom integration, your default email address must be netid@rutgers.edu. Email addresses using firstname.lastname@rutgers.edu and netid@domain.rutgers.edu are not valid Zoom email addresses.
" KB0016318 Synchronous Meeting Zoom - How do I add Canvas students as alternative hosts for Zoom meetings hosted in Canvas? "
Before Starting
For some courses, Canvas instructors may require users with a student role in the Canvas course to serve as an alternate host for Zoom meetings to serve as learning assistants, peer leaders, or group leaders. While Zoom alt-hosts are automatically provisioned from the list of instructors in Canvas, you may invite students as alt-hosts when scheduling a meeting within Zoom in Canvas. Please be sure your learning assistants, peer leaders, or group leaders create their Zoom accounts in the Service Activation Portal.
Course Instructor
Follow the steps below to allow your learning assistants who have a student role in your course to serve as hosts for your sessions. It also allows students in your course to see the scheduled Zoom meeting on their Canvas Dashboard, course calendar, and/or receive notifications.
1.	Log in to Canvas and access your Course.
2.	Schedule a new Zoom meeting.
3.	For alternative hosts, add the learning assistant's Zoom ID, which is their
netid@rutgers.edu.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Save the meeting. 
o	Note: Student alternative hosts added can only start meetings; they cannot edit the details of these meetings in Canvas.
Learning Assistant/Canvas Student
Anyone with a student role in Canvas cannot create or start meetings. This is set by the Rutgers Zoom administrators. Learning assistants will not see the Zoom meeting information listed in their Upcoming Meeting in the Rutgers Zoom Web Portal, so they must use the meeting link from Canvas. They must be logged into the Rutgers Zoom Web Portal so that Zoom will recognize their alt-host status.
When it is time to start the meeting, your learning assistants should:
1.	In Canvas, click Zoom in your course navigation.
2.	Click on Join for the meeting they were assigned as an alt-host.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	The learning assistant will be prompted to launch the Zoom desktop app (preferred) and should now be able to start the meeting.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0016317 Synchronous Meeting Zoom in Canvas – Getting Started for Students "
What is Zoom?
Zoom is a cloud-based web conferencing service that supports video, voice, content sharing, and chat on any device. Zoom is available to all Rutgers faculty, staff, and students on the left-hand navigation of Canvas courses or through the Rutgers Zoom Web portal at rutgers.zoom.us
Getting Started with Zoom
1.	Enable Zoom via the Rutgers Service Activation Portal. Zoom accounts are created with email addresses in the format of netid@rutgers.edu. 
2.	Review settings by visiting the Rutgers Zoom Web Portal. 
o	Customize your profile by adding an image or a virtual background.
3.	 Download the Zoom desktop or mobile app.
4.	 Review the Zoom Quick Start Guide.
Best Practices for Zoom Meetings in your Canvas Course
1.	Always use your Rutgers Zoom account. Log in to the Rutgers Zoom Web portal and click Sign In with SSO. Advanced meeting settings require all participants to use accounts from the same license. You must use your Rutgers Zoom account, not a personal account or an employer-provided account.
2.	Use the desktop or mobile app! If your instructor opts to use pre-assigned breakout rooms, you must use the Zoom app. Joining from the browser will not work.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Remember, your Zoom ID is netid@rutgers.edu. Your Zoom ID has been created as netid@rutgers.edu. This is an alias listed under Manage Email Addresses in the NetID Service Activation Portal.
4.	Make sure your Zoom app is up to date. (How do I update my Zoom app?)
Ways to Join a Meeting in Canvas
If a Zoom meeting is scheduled in Canvas, you may join the meeting by clicking the Join link using one of these methods:
•	In your Rutgers Zoom Web portal at rutgers.zoom.us.
•	In the desktop app.
•	In the Zoom tool through your Canvas course navigation.
•	From the Canvas Calendar event.
•	From the Canvas Dashboard.
•	By copying the meeting URL from your Canvas Inbox message.
•	Copy the meeting URL from your Canvas Calendar notifications for Canvas Calendar events and Inbox messages.
" KB0016300 Synchronous Meeting Zoom – Alternate Hosts and your Canvas Course "
This article explains how the Zoom LTI in Canvas adds and manages alternate hosts when scheduling Zoom meetings within Canvas.
When a meeting is scheduled in the Zoom integration in Canvas, the following users are automatically added to Zoom meetings as alternate hosts when the meetings are created in the LTI:
•	Teachers, TAs, and teacher-based roles who have visited the Zoom page in the Canvas course previously 
o	The alt-hosts may not be displayed immediately when scheduling the meeting; however, teachers and teacher-based roles (Facilitator, course support, and other school-created course roles) will be granted access to host course meetings once they access the Zoom tool in their course. See Course Roles and Permissions. 
•	Canvas administrators  
o	Canvas admins are considered instructors by Zoom. When a Canvas admin visits the Zoom LTI in a course, they will be added as an alternative host to the meetings on the course schedule.
Automating the addition of alternative hosts reduces the work for course instructors who schedule course meetings.
Who can serve as alternative hosts?
For Zoom meetings created in Canvas, anyone associated with the Rutgers Zoom license may serve as an alternative host. They do not have to be enrolled in the Canvas course.
How can I edit or change alternative hosts?
Alternate hosts must have an active Rutgers Zoom account and be added using the email address associated with that account. They may be added via the meeting details through the Zoom integration in Canvas or through the Zoom Web Portal.
To add the alternative host, add the user with their netid@rutgers.edu email address. Other Rutgers email address forms will not work; firstname.lastname@rutgers.edu and netid@domain.rutgers.edu are not associated with a Rutgers Zoom account. Your alternative host will receive an email notification that they are an alternative host. This email is the only link to access the Zoom meeting, as the meeting will not appear in the Zoom integration in Canvas or in the Zoom Web Portal. 
" KB0016330 Synchronous Meeting Zoom – Canvas Setup for Instructors "
This page describes how to set up and use the Zoom LTI in Canvas. Users will still need to download the Zoom app or open the meeting in a new browser tab to join a meeting.
Table of Contents
•	About Rutgers Zoom and Canvas Accounts
•	Zoom Setup
•	Zoom Meetings 
o	Schedule a Meeting
o	Polls
o	Pre-assign Breakout Rooms
o	Canvas Course Calendar, Dashboard, Inbox, and Notifications
o	Start a Meeting
o	Cloud Recordings
•	Security and Link Sharing
•	Canvas Guides
About Rutgers Zoom and Canvas Accounts
•	The Zoom LTI integration in Canvas allows faculty to schedule a Zoom meeting and share the meeting link with students in their course. 
•	To use the Zoom LTI Integration, Rutgers NetID users need an existing Rutgers Zoom account. Please enable Zoom via the Service Activation Portal. Zoom accounts are created with email addresses in the format of netid@rutgers.edu.   
o	You must change your Canvas default email address to this format to successfully pair your Zoom and Canvas accounts.
Zoom Setup
1.	Click on Zoom in the course navigation. If it is not listed, enable it by managing the course navigation links in course Settings.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Authorize with LMS: Click Authorize to pair your Canvas account to your Zoom account. This will only need to be done once.

     Error! Filename not specified.
o	After authorizing Zoom, you will also be prompted to configure your Zoom AI Companion. Select Update to finalize your choices. This selection should only appear for you the first time you access Zoom.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click the pencil icon to set your time zone.
4.	In the drop-down menu, select your time zone.
5.	Click Update.
Zoom Meetings
Schedule a Meeting
These instructions are for Rutgers-affiliated faculty and staff who log into Canvas with a Rutgers NetID and have an existing Rutgers Zoom Account. Canvas students and Canvas instructors who log in with an email address cannot schedule meetings through the Zoom LTI for Canvas integration.
1.	Click Zoom in the course menu.
2.	Click Schedule a New Meeting.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Enter the details for your meeting.
1.	Topic: The default name is your course title. Provide a descriptive name.
2.	Description: Optional information may be listed here.
3.	When: Set the date and time for the meeting in your time zone.
4.	Duration: Set the meeting duration. Meetings may run longer than expected.
5.	Time Zone: The selected time zone from the setup will be displayed.
6.	Recurring Meeting: Check the box if your meeting is recurring at the same time, either Daily, Weekly, Monthly, or No Fixed Time.

     Error! Filename not specified.

Note: When you schedule a recurring meeting, each meeting occurrence creates an independent event that appears in your meetings list. This means that if you need to modify all instances of a meeting, you must edit each event individually in the Rutgers Zoom Web Portal. Pre-assigned rooms are removed if you edit a meeting. You must re-add them after you make changes.
7.	Meeting Invitees:
8.	Registration: Check the box to require attendees to enter a name and email address (Optional). This does not facilitate the use of pre-assigned break-out rooms.
9.	Security: A passcode will be pre-populated. You may require a Waiting Room and turn it off once your meeting is underway (Recommended). Only authenticated users can join meetings, which is not checked by default. This is required for using pre-assigned breakout rooms and requires a Rutgers Zoom account.
10.	 Video: The default setting for video is off (Recommended). Participants and hosts may choose to enable video once the meeting has begun.
11.	Audio: Both audio and telephone are enabled, so participants have an option when internet connectivity is poor (Recommended). 
12.	Meeting Options: 
1.	Enable join before host (Not Recommended). The recording/polls/other data can be spread across multiple users' accounts and not associated with the course instructor’s account. By design, it goes to the first person joining the meeting who is set as the temporary host.
2.	Mute participant upon entry is checked by default (Recommended).
3.	Instructors may prefer to enable Record the meeting automatically.
13.	Alternate Hosts: Teachers enrolled in your Canvas course site who have completed the Zoom Setup will be listed as alternate hosts. Alternate hosts may be removed from each scheduled meeting.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click Save.
You can view details about your recurring meetings in the upcoming meetings list.
Polls
Depending on your Zoom account settings, breakout rooms and polls may not be enabled by default. To enable these features, log in to the Rutgers Zoom Web Portal and change your meeting settings.
Once your meeting is scheduled in Canvas, you may download a spreadsheet template (CSV file) [1] to use to import [2] poll questions [3] for your meeting. If you do not need a poll or have made an error, you may delete the poll [4].
Error! Filename not specified.
Only polls created via a CSV upload in Zoom LTI Pro will appear in Canvas Zoom LTI. If a poll is added via the Rutgers Zoom Web Portal, it will not appear in Canvas but will be available during the meeting. 
Pre-assign Breakout Rooms
To pre-assign breakout rooms, create a meeting in Canvas as above and check the Breakout Room pre-assign option. This requires students to authenticate into the Zoom application with their Rutgers Zoom account. Checking the box to require registration for the meeting (H) is not the same as authenticating/signing into Zoom with a Rutgers Zoom account (L). The latter is required for use with pre-assigned breakout rooms. Signing in to the Zoom app with a personal or employer-sponsored Zoom account does not work with pre-assigned breakout rooms. 
1.	Schedule your meeting and check the box to require authentication for the meeting (and all occurrences).
2.	Under Meeting Options, check the box for Breakout Room pre-assign:
3.	Enter the breakout room names and participants’ email addresses as netid@rutgers.edu. This can be uploaded with a CSV.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Save the meeting.
Note: To ensure students are properly assigned to breakout rooms, use email addresses in the format netid@rutgers.edu and direct your students to log in to the Zoom app with these email addresses when they join the meeting.
For more information on Zoom breakout rooms, please see the Zoom Support Center
•	Manage breakout rooms (host)
•	Pre-assign participants to breakout rooms (host)
How do I create a CSV file for Rutgers NetIDs and assign them to a breakout room?
For Rutgers courses tied to a Banner or REGIS roster, your student’s Rutgers NetID is their SIS USER ID in Canvas. The Canvas SIS User ID is available in the gradebook export.
1.	Log in to your Canvas course.
2.	Click Grades.
3.	Click the Actions menu [1], then click the Export link [2]. When the export is complete, Canvas will automatically download the CSV file to your computer.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Open the downloaded file.
5.	Copy the first five columns (A-E) of the gradebook export to a new worksheet.
6.	Place your cursor in cell F3. Your cursor should be in the cell to the right of the section name of the first student.
7.	In Cell F3, type =D3&”@rutgers.edu” to combine the NetID with the email domain.
8.	Copy and fill in the formula for all students.
9.	If you would like to create breakout rooms based on section assignment, copy the section column and the newly created email address column to the Zoom breakout room template CSV.

     Error! Filename not specified.
10.	Save the Zoom breakout room template as a CSV file.
For more information on Microsoft Excel and concatenation and ampersand, view this LinkedIn Learning course on Combine data using CONCATENATE, CONCAT, and TEXTJOIN functions and the ampersand (&) character.
Canvas Course Calendar, Dashboard, Inbox, and Notifications
Canvas users are notified by Canvas Conversation (Inbox) and a Canvas Calendar Event whenever a meeting is created or deleted. When you schedule or edit a meeting, the Canvas Calendar updates automatically.
Error! Filename not specified.
If the course is active (published and within the course start and end dates), enrolled students will receive a Canvas Conversation message about the meeting. Students can select the Join URL to join the meeting at the correct time. Please review Setting Early Access in Canvas to understand more about notifications before the start of the semester.
Error! Filename not specified.
Although as an instructor, you will not see your scheduled Zoom meetings on the Canvas Dashboard (in List View). Students enrolled in your course will see Zoom meeting reminders on the Canvas Dashboard.
Error! Filename not specified.
Start a Meeting
If you have scheduled a Zoom meeting via the Zoom for Canvas integration, you can start it from within Canvas.
1.	In Canvas, select Zoom from the course navigation menu
2.	Select Upcoming Meetings
3.	Select Start to the right of the meeting's Meeting ID.
Cloud Recordings
Recordings are preserved for 180 days or until policies are changed. It is recommended that you download your course recordings and upload them to Kaltura, which has no retention limit and unlimited storage. See How to Transfer Zoom Recordings into My Kaltura Media.
Security and Link Sharing
Please caution your students against sharing Zoom links. Zoom links are unique to the participant (student) and the meeting. The Zoom link will also include the meeting password. Since the link includes participant information, when it's shared, two participants with the same name will appear in the participant panel. This has implications if you are using the Attendance Report for awarding participation points.
Canvas Guides
•	Using Zoom with Canvas
•	How do I add Zoom to a Canvas course?
•	How do I schedule a Zoom video meeting?
•	How do I invite others to join a meeting?
•	How do I start a meeting?
•	How do I record a meeting?
•	How do I know if students have joined the meeting?
•	How do I mute and unmute all participants?
•	How do I turn my camera on and off and use the Zoom controls?
•	How do I share my screen?
•	How do I manage and share the recording?
" KB0016319 Synchronous Meeting Zoom – Office Hours Across Many Canvas Courses "
This guide will demonstrate how to host office hours using a single recurring Zoom meeting across multiple Canvas courses by leveraging the Calendar tool to let students sign up for appointments in advance.
The meeting should not be created in Canvas, or the meeting will be created for only one course.
To use Rutgers Zoom, NetID users must activate their Zoom accounts in the Rutgers Service Activation Portal.
1.	Access the Rutgers Zoom Web Portal and choose 0Sign in with your NetID.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Select Meetings, and then Schedule a Meeting.
Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Enter meeting date, time, and any other settings. For office hours, create a recurring meeting and enable the Waiting Room option so that you can meet with students one at a time. 

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click Save.
5.	Copy the Zoom Invite Link.
Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Log in to Canvas and go to the Calendar tool.
7.	Click the “+” button at the top, then select the Appointment Group tab.
8.	Enter your meeting details to match your Zoom Meeting information. For Appointment Group Options, check the box to limit each time slot to 1 user.
Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Paste the Zoom invite link in the details section.
10.	Under Calendar, you can select multiple courses when creating the event. This will allow students from multiple courses to view the appointments while only setting up one recurring office hours meeting. 
Error! Filename not specified.
11.	Click Publish.
" KB0016806 Tableau Setting favorites in Tableau "
Setting favorites
Dashboards and Projects may be set as favorites for quick access.
These instructions are also available as a printable PDF.
1.	To set a favorite, click the empty star icon.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Favorites are displayed on the Home page of the Tableau ecosystem. To remove a favorite, click the filled star icon. 

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0018390 Tableau Tableau - access reports "
Tableau is a powerful enterprise business intelligence and data visualization tool that can be leveraged to gain insights into the data of interest. Privileges must be granted before signing in to Tableau Reports.
These instructions are also available as a printable PDF.
1.	Navigate to MyRutgers and log in with your Rutgers NetID and password.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	From the left sidebar, click the Apps icon.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	In the search bar, type Tableau.
4.	From the search results, click Tableau Reports.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Click the heart icon to save Tableau Reports in the Favorites tab.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0018391 Tableau Tableau - access the Rutgers Data Cookbook "
The Rutgers Data Cookbook serves as a central repository for data definitions. Use it to browse and access enterprise business intelligence offerings.
These instructions are also available as a printable PDF.
1.	Navigate to MyRutgers and login with your Rutgers NetID and password.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	From the left sidebar, click the Apps icon.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	In the search bar, type data cookbook.
4.	From the search results, click Data Cookbook.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Click the heart icon to save the Data Cookbook in the Favorites tab.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0018392 Tableau Tableau - access the Rutgers Reporting Hub "
The Rutgers Reporting Hub serves as a central repository for reports and dashboards. Use it to browse and access enterprise business intelligence offerings.
These instructions are also available as a printable PDF.
1.	Navigate to MyRutgers and login with your Rutgers NetID and password.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	From the left sidebar, click the Apps icon.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	In the search bar, type reporting hub.
4.	From the search results, click Reporting Hub.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Click the heart icon to save Reporting Hub in the Favorites tab.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0016810 Tableau Tableau - create views (save filters) "
Save your frequently used filters in Tableau reports and dashboards by creating custom views.
These instructions are also available as a printable PDF.
1.	Navigate to a report or dashboard and apply one or more filters. 
Note: Filters are typically configured as drop-downs, radio buttons, or search bars in Tableau.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	In the toolbar, click Save Custom View.
Note: In some instances, the toolbar appears at the top of the screen; in others, at the bottom.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Enter a name for the view (saved filters) and click Save.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	To switch or edit views (saved filters), click the view name in the toolbar.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Select a different view or use the edit icon to adjust a view. Custom views may also be deleted.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0016809 Tableau Tableau - export (download) reports and dashboards "
Reports and dashboards can be exported and downloaded as images or PDF files.
These instructions are also available as a printable PDF.
1.	Navigate to a report or dashboard.
2.	In the toolbar, click the download icon.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Select a format for download.
Note: For data security purposes, only specific formats will be available for selection. This is dependent on the data content of the reports and dashboards.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0016811 Tableau Tableau - schedule email subscriptions "
Use the email subscription feature to automatically send emails with images or PDFs of specific reports and dashboards. Subscriptions may also be combined with views (saved filters).
These instructions are also available as a printable PDF.
1.	 Navigate to a report or dashboard and apply views (saved filters) as needed.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	In the toolbar, click Watch.
3.	Select Subscriptions.
Note: In some instances, the toolbar appears at the top of the screen; in others, at the bottom.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	If you have permission to subscribe other viewers, enter their names in the Subscribe Users box.
Note: Only certain users will have permission to subscribe to other users in the system. If this feature is unavailable, all subscriptions will be sent only to your email.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Select This View to send this page only. Select Entire Workbook to generate a new page or image for each report or dashboard in the workbook.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Select Image, PDF, or Image and PDF.

Error! Filename not specified.

For PDFs, Landscape orientation is recommended.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Enter a Subject for the email. Optionally, enter a Message for the body of the email.
8.	Select a Schedule.

Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Review selections and click Subscribe.

Error! Filename not specified.
10.	It is possible to make edits and adjustments to subscriptions. In the toolbar, click Watch.
11.	Select Subscriptions.

Error! Filename not specified.
12.	In the lower-left corner of the pop-up, click Manage Subscriptions.

Error! Filename not specified.
13.	Click the Actions (...) menu to edit a subscription from the list. To delete a subscription, click Unsubscribe.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0016808 Tableau Tableau - share links to reports and dashboards "
Links may be used to share reports and dashboards with other viewers. Please note that recipients must have viewer permissions in the Tableau environment to access the linked reports and dashboards.
These instructions are also available as a printable PDF.
1.	Navigate to the report or dashboard.
2.	In the toolbar, click Share.
Note: In some instances, the toolbar appears at the top of the screen, and in other instances, it appears in the lower part of the screen.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click Copy Link to copy the link to the clipboard. Paste as needed.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0016721 TV Services Rutgers Live TV Activation and Installation "
Rutgers live TV is delivered over an IPTV app via an Android TV device. It is available in public spaces, offices, residence hall lounges, athletic buildings, and other campus areas. Using a Google Chromecast or similar Android TV (OS) device, you can stream content on devices connected to the non-residential wireless network (RUIOT). This service is not available for student use in dorms; students should explore available streaming plans and discounts for use in residence halls. 
You must contact your local IT support for assistance to watch TV content in a non-residential campus location. Your IT department will need to:
1.	Obtain a compatible streaming device.
2.	Get the device's wireless MAC address.
3.	Complete an initial setup and activation.
4.	Request service activation from OIT.
For more information about the service, you can view the channel lineup or visit the Rutgers Television Content Services website. 
IT Admin Activation and Setup Instructions
Departmental IT Staff can obtain and set up Live TV in two ways. 
•	Contact OIT - Enterprise Infrastructure to obtain a pre-configured streaming device and receive assistance with setup. This service comes at a cost. 
•	Obtain and configure your own departmental device. 
Configure your own departmental device
1.	Obtain a Google Chromecast device or similar Android TV (OS) device.  
2.	You'll need to get the device's MAC address before proceeding. Follow the instructions on how to locate your Chromecast MAC address.  
o	For Chromecast with Google TV devices, you must first connect to an alternate WiFi network, such as a phone hotspot, and complete the device setup process to reach the MAC address.
3.	Follow the guide on how to set up your Chromecast.  
o	Rutgers Scarletmail accounts are not able to download the required app from the Google Play store to access IPTV. You will need to have an alternate Google account. 
o	Google accounts do not need to be associated with a Gmail email address; instead, you can create an account using a Rutgers Email address. It is recommended that you create one using a departmental email address or distribution list to centralize the management of multiple devices. You can follow the instructions on how to create a Google account with a non-Gmail email address. 
o	During setup, custom room names are recommended to identify the building and room number in which the device will be located. 
4.	Submit a request for service activation from OIT with the Device's MAC address. 
5.	Once OIT activates your service, you will receive a password to connect the device to the RUIOT wireless network. 
o	The device must be on the RUIOT wireless network to access the IPTV service. 
o	Remember to go back and forget the network that you originally used to obtain the MAC address.
6.	After connecting to RUIOT, download the iMPlayer TV IPTV app on the Chromecast device. 
o	This app is not available for download if logged in using a ScarletMail account. 
7.	Open the app and select Management Code, then enter the code provided to you by OIT.  
o	After entering the code, please wait about 30 seconds for the channels and guide to fully load. After they load the first channel in the list (CBS) will start playing. If they do not play, be sure you are connected to RUIOT, or restart the device. 
8.	Updating the following settings for unattended locations, such as public spaces that display constant Live TV content, is recommended.  
o	Change the power settings so it never turns off. Located in Settings > System > Power & Energy > Never.
o	Turn on Profile Lock to keep anyone from accessing your profile or changing certain settings. 
For instructions on how to use the application, refer to the Rutgers Live TV User Guide. 
 
" KB0018019 TV Services Rutgers Live TV User Guide "
Rutgers live TV is delivered over an IPTV app via an Android TV device. It is available in public spaces, offices, residence hall lounges, athletic buildings, and other campus areas. Using a Google Chromecast or similar Android TV (OS) device, you can stream content on devices connected to the non-residential wireless network (RUIOT). This service is not available for student use in dorms; students should explore available streaming plans and discounts for use in residence halls. 
If you need to set up Rutgers Live TV, refer to the instructions in the Rutgers Live TV Activation and Installation article. 
For more information about the service, you can view the channel lineup or visit the Rutgers Television Content Services website. 
User Guide
RUTV Application User Guide [PDF]
Rutgers IPTV functions similarly to most streaming TV platforms. Playback is available along with a search feature and the ability to favorite channels.
To access the service, on the home menu of your device, select the iMPlayer app located under Live TV. 
Error! Filename not specified.
Playback (also known as Catch-up) is available for the previous 5 days. Pause, Rewind, and Fast Forward are available on live TV as well as during playbacks of previously aired shows. 
Error! Filename not specified.
Remote Control Guide
There are 2 different interfaces while viewing programming. One is while viewing a channel on full screen, and the other is the channel guide. The remote control button functionality for each interface is listed below. 
Full-Screen Mode
Error! Filename not specified.
•	
o	App Menu: Long press the center button
o	Channel Guide: Long press the left button
o	Quick Channel Guide: Short press the left button
o	Previous Channel: Long press the right button
Channel Guide/Electronic Program Guide (EPG) 
To get to the Channel Guide, long press the left button. For a list of available channels, you can view the channel lineup article.
Error! Filename not specified.
•	
o	Quick Menu: Long press the center button
o	App Menu: Long press the left button
o	Pause/Playback: Short press the center button
o	Playback (also known as catch-up): Short press the left button to see previously aired content
FAQ
Why am I seeing pixelation occur when watching Live TV?
When there are very heavy storms in our area, our Satellite signal can become degraded or blocked. This usually only lasts a short while, and it passes quickly. Some channels, such as CNN, HGTV, MSNBC, and a few other channels, will have fewer”Rain Fade” issues.  
Why does a round circle pop up on the screen and cause what I'm watching to stop playing?
This is called buffering, which should be rare but is an indication of a weak WIFI signal or a Network congestion issue. If it continues after 15 minutes or frequently occurs, please contact the OIT Help Desk to report it.  
Why do I not see any channels or information in the guide after launching the app?
To fix this, use the back button to open the program guide, then hold down the center select button. Select the app menu, then choose to Update Playlist.
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0013077 Two-step login FAQ Can a guest order a Duo hardware token? "
Guests can order hardware tokens through the Software Portal. 
" KB0013079 Two-step login FAQ Can I use the Safenet or RSA hardware tokens for Duo? "
No, SafeNet or RSA tokens are not compatible with two-step login with Duo.
" KB0013075 Two-step login FAQ Do I need a backup for my mobile device when using Duo? "
You are strongly encouraged to enroll in more than one method of verifying your identity, just in case your primary device (i.e., a smartphone or tablet) is not available. You can use any device enrolled with two-step login to verify your identity. You can follow the guide on how to add additional devices to Duo. 
" KB0013065 Two-step login FAQ Do I need to enable notifications for the Duo Mobile Application? "
Enabling notifications for the Duo Mobile app is recommended. It is especially recommended that notifications for the Duo Mobile app be enabled if you frequently use the Push option to authenticate using DUO. When notifications are enabled, you will immediately know if someone other than you is trying to log in using your credentials, and in this case, you can report fraud.
" KB0013085 Two-step login FAQ Do I need to use two-step login every time I use my software? "
On some applications or services, you will only need to authenticate with two-step verification when you first set up or log in to the application.
The first time you approve the Duo authentication request, you'll see the option to confirm the device is yours. This creates a trusted browser session for 30 days that will let you skip Duo two-factor authentication when you log in again with the same browser and device until that trust session expires. You are still required to authenticate with your NetID and Password each time, and your remembered device confirms your identity. Note that this feature is browser-specific and not shared between different browsers. For example, logging in with Chrome today and using Firefox later will ask you to authenticate again.
Do not select that this is your device when using a public or shared computer! This could leave your Duo session available to other users. Trust the browser only when you access applications from your own computer. Clicking on No, other people use this device will not create a trust session. You won't be asked to trust that device again for 14 days.
     Error! Filename not specified.
When your trusted browser session expires, you must use two-factor authentication again. Duo Push, phone call, text message, and passcode authentication methods will show the option to Remember Me already checked for you. Leaving the option enabled creates a new trusted browser session. If you don't want to trust that browser again, uncheck the Remember Me box before you approve the Duo Push or phone call request or enter a passcode.
" KB0013062 Two-step login FAQ Do other universities use two-step login with Duo Security? "
Duo Security is the leading providing of two-step login in higher education. Duo Two-step login is a requirement for accessing university resources at Harvard, Indiana, MIT, Penn State, University of South Carolina, University of Rochester, University of Michigan, and many other institutions. 
" KB0013086 Two-step login FAQ "Does opting to select ""Yes, this is my device"" for Duo reduce my authentication security?" "
No. Selecting "Yes, this is my device" will not reduce your authentication security. With the "Yes, this is my device" feature enabled, your device becomes your two-step authentication method and is fully logged for auditing. Having this feature will prevent a new Duo authentication prompt from being asked every time you log in to a Rutgers University service or tool. Some may find this convenient instead of approving the Duo prompt frequently. However, if you log in from a new browser or device, the Duo prompt will reappear. 
There is a minimal chance that your authentication security will be reduced. Someone would need to obtain your NetID & NetID Password AND access to your device to compromise your credentials. 
Note that you must have Cookies enabled on your browser for the "Yes, this is my device" feature to work properly. 
" KB0013102 Two-step login FAQ How can a Retiree or Emeritus order a hardware token? "
Retirees and Emeriti can request a hardware token through the Rutgers Software Portal on the Security Hardware Token for Guests, Retirees, and Emeriti page.
" KB0013090 Two-step login FAQ How can I use two-step login with Duo when there is no network or cellular service available? "
In the absence of Wi-Fi and cellular connectivity, the push, or SMS passcode method will not work. Instead, you can use Duo mobile passcodes, or you can also use a Duo hardware token. 
" KB0013064 Two-step login FAQ How do I download the Duo Mobile application? "
Use your device’s App Store to search and download the Duo Mobile Application.
Apple Devices
1.	If you are using an Apple device, visit the App Store on your device. 
2.	Search for Duo Mobile in the search bar and click on Get to download.
3.	You may be required to enter your credentials to finalize the download. 
Android Devices
1.	If you are using an Android device, please visit the Google Play Store on your device.
2.	Search for Duo Mobile in the search bar and click on Install to download.
3.	You may be required to enter your credentials to finalize the download. 
Alternatively, the links may be found on Duo Mobile's website. 
" KB0013092 Two-step login FAQ How do I replace my mobile device on Duo? "
Replacing a mobile device depends on whether you still have access to the old device and have the same number. 
New device with the same number
Still have the old device
1.	Go to the NetID Management Page.
2.	Click on Manage NetID+ Two Factor Authentication and log in with your NetID and password.
3.	On the Duo Prompt, choose Other options. 
4.	Select Manage devices at the bottom of the list. 
5.	Ensure your old device is connected to WiFi.
6.	Choose Duo Push to verify your identity. 
7.	Verify via the push on your old device.
8.	Click on I have a new phone for your mobile device.
9.	Follow the instructions to add your new device.
Do not have access to the old device
1.	Log in to the NetID Application Management Tool.
2.	Click on Manage NetID+ Two Factor Authentication and log in with your NetID and password.
3.	On the Duo Prompt, choose Other options. 
4.	Select Manage devices at the bottom of the list. 
5.	Choose Text Message Passcode.
6.	Verify via your selected method.
7.	Click on I have a new phone for your mobile device.
8.	Follow the instructions to add your new device.
New device with a new number
Still have the old device
1.	Log in to the NetID Application Management Tool.
2.	Click on Manage NetID+ Two Factor Authentication and log in with your NetID and password.
3.	On the Duo Prompt, choose Other options. 
4.	Select Manage devices at the bottom of the list. 
5.	Ensure your old device is connected to WiFi.
6.	Choose Duo Push to verify your identity. 
7.	Verify via the push on your old device.
8.	Click on Add a device. 
9.	Follow the instructions to add your new device.
Do not have access to the old device, and do not have a secondary registered device
You must call the Rutgers OIT Help Desk at (833) OIT-HELP to remove the old device from your Duo Security account. The Help Desk will provide you with a bypass code to register your new device.
" KB0013071 Two-step login FAQ How do I sign up for two-step login with Duo? "
Setting up two-step login takes about five minutes. To sign up, visit the enrollment guide for two-step login with Duo on a computer.
" KB0013084 Two-step login FAQ How do I use an SMS passcode with Duo? "
You’re able to generate a text message passcode to use to verify your identity. After a successful NetID and password authentication, you will see the Duo two-factor authentication page.
1.	Choose Other Options.
2.	Choose Send text message passcode.
3.	When you land on the text message page, it will show that a text message was just sent to you with a passcode. When you receive the message, enter that passcode into the space provided and click Verify.
4.	If you did not receive the code or the code does not work, select Send a new passcode.
5.	A new passcode will be sent to your smart device.
Note: These are one-time use codes that become invalid once used. If you select Send a new passcode multiple times, only the most recent passcode will remain valid. SMS text messages and voice call authentications made to your mobile phone are billed by your carrier in the same way that any other text message or call would. Rutgers will not reimburse you for these charges.
" KB0013078 Two-step login FAQ How is Duo used in places such as exam rooms that forbid mobile phones? "
Students may need to log into Duo during exams and other testing situations. Instructors and students should know this requirement and plan for this in advance. This article provides guidance for students and instructors in these situations.
If you are a student who is in a testing facility that does not allow smart devices, you may choose to have one of the following alternative authentication methods:
1.	Obtain a single-use passcode by opening the Duo Mobile app. Under the Rutgers University account, a six-digit passcode will be displayed. You will be able to use this code one time on the Duo Prompt by selecting Other options and then choosing Duo mobile passcode. 
o	You can click Refresh Passcode in the mobile app to generate a new passcode.
o	Multiple valid passcodes can be generated this way.
o	They must be used in the order they were generated. Once a passcode is used, it and all previous passcodes generated prior to it will become invalid. 
2.	Obtain a hardware token. Before your exam, you may purchase a hardware token from the Software Portal. Once you have received your hardware token, you can follow the hardware token enrollment steps and then log in with a hardware token. 
If you are an instructor with students using a testing facility that does not allow smart devices, please be aware that students may need a passcode or a hardware token to log in.
 
" KB0013087 Two-step login FAQ How often will I need to re-authenticate two-step login with Duo to web applications? "
If you did not select "Yes, this is my device" on the Duo prompt when signing in, your session with a two-step login with Duo is not saved for that device and will need to be re-authenticated anytime you log in to a Rutgers service.
If you did select "Yes, this is my device" generally, once logged in with Duo, there are 8 hours of an active SSO session without needing to re-authenticate. However, some exceptions could be based on a web application’s session policy and web browser implementations. Also, if you close your web browser and then open a new web browser, you will be prompted to authenticate to establish a new SSO session. 
" KB0013091 Two-step login FAQ I forgot to bring my mobile device to work. What do I need to do? "
You are strongly encouraged to enroll more than one device, such as a smartphone and tablet, to avoid difficulties authenticating if your primary device is unavailable. If you do not have a secondary device, you may contact the OIT Help Desk. You will be provided with a temporary bypass code to set up a new method of authentication.
" KB0013083 Two-step login FAQ I have a flip/clamshell mobile phone. Will this work with two-step login with Duo? "
Yes, you can use either the SMS passcode authentication method. Note that these methods are the least cost-effective methods and are not recommended if you can use other authentication methods, such as a hardware token. Information regarding Duo Hardware tokens can be found in the Duo Hardware Token Information article. 
" KB0013093 Two-step login FAQ I removed the Duo App by mistake or I got a new phone. What do I need to do? "
If you have replaced the phone you activated for Duo Push, deleted the Duo mobile app, or Duo Push stops working, you can still get it working again.
1.	If a Duo Push authentication times out, you'll see the prompt with the I got a new phone link at the bottom. Click or tap that link to begin the reactivation process.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	If you still use the same phone number you used when you first set up the phone to use Duo Push, click or tap Text me a link to begin the reactivation process. When the text message with the link arrives on your phone, make sure the Duo mobile app is reinstalled, then tap it to automatically reactivate Duo Mobile and use Duo Push again.

    Error! Filename not specified.
3.	If you are using a different phone number than the one you originally set up for Duo Push, tap or click the I got a new number link.
o	If you have another way to verify your identity through Duo authentication, select Continue, then add your new phone number and set up Duo Push on your new phone. Make sure to remove your old device as well.
o	If you do not have another way to verify your identity through Duo, contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0013089 Two-step login FAQ I will be traveling internationally. Will I be able to use two-step login? "
Yes, you can use Duo two-step login when traveling abroad. All available authentication methods should work. If cellular service and internet access are unavailable, the Verified Push or SMS passcodes will not be available on your device. In this case, you can still use Duo Mobile passcodes or a hardware token. 
" KB0013094 Two-step login FAQ "If I lose my hardware token, what do I need to do?" "
Students, faculty, staff, guests, retirees, and emeritus professors are limited to one Duo hardware token each ($6 each), though lost tokens can be replaced.
Replacement tokens are currently free to users. Users are limited to one token replacement each.
To replace your lost token, visit the Rutgers Software Portal regarding Security Hardware Token Replacement. 
For immediate assistance, contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0014075 Two-step login FAQ Is Duo blocked in some countries due to U.S. sanctions? "
To comply with U.S. regulations, two-step login with Duo is blocked for users in countries or regions subject to economic and trade sanctions enforced by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC).
“Users attempting to authenticate to a Duo-protected application from an access device with an IP address originating in an OFAC-regulated country or region will be blocked from completing their login and receive an error message,” according to Duo Support. 
You may receive the following error message in the Duo Prompt: "Access denied. Duo Security does not provide services in your current location." 
Blocked authentications will appear in the Authentication Log as “Restricted OFAC location.”
For additional details, including an updated list of countries and regions blocked as part of these OFAC sanctions, see this knowledge base article posted by Duo.
 
" KB0013096 Two-step login FAQ My Duo hardware token passcode keeps failing. What do I need to do? "
You may need to resynch the hardware token with your Duo account. To resynch the hardware token with your Duo Account, re-enroll it with your Duo Account. For detailed instructions, visit the knowledge article on how to resync your Duo hardware token. 
If you have lost or the battery has stopped working on the security hardware token, you can replace the hardware token. For more information, visit the Rutgers Software Portal page to obtain a Duo hardware token replacement. 
" KB0013066 Two-step login FAQ Should I allow the Duo Mobile app access to the camera on my device? "
Yes, allow the Duo Mobile App access to your camera on your enrolled device. The camera can be utilized to scan the activation barcode to link the Duo Mobile app to your account. 
If you can't scan the QR code or your device does not have a camera, tap Or email activation code when prompted during the setup process. Then, enter your email address to send the activation link to yourself. Follow the instructions in the email to activate the new account in Duo Mobile.
" KB0018814 Two-step login FAQ Verified Duo Push FAQs "
What is changing? 
Currently, when logging in to Rutgers systems, you accept a push notification from the Duo Mobile app. Once the change occurs, the device being used for access will display a three-digit verification code. You will then be asked to open the Duo Mobile app and enter the three-digit verification code that’s displayed. This new Duo method is known as Verified Duo Push (VDP). View the Verified Duo Push instructions to learn how to log in.  
What is not changing?
This change does not impact other methods of Duo two-factor authentication, which will remain available. This includes SMS passcodes, Touch ID, Hardware Tokens, Duo Mobile Generated Passcodes, and Security Keys. 
When will this change take place? 
Verified Duo Push will be introduced on October 7, 2025. However, not everyone will notice or see the change immediately. If you have clicked on "Yes, this is my device" during a previous Duo verification, you created a trusted browser session that is typically “saved” for up to 30 days. You will see the new Verified Duo Push after your trusted session has expired. Alternatively, you can use an Incognito or Private tab on your browser to see the new experience before then. 
Why is this changing? 
When someone tries to log in using a stolen account, it can trigger a series of push notifications to the account owner. These repeated alerts may become confusing or frustrating, leading the individual to accidentally approve a login request that isn't legitimate. Authentication via number matching takes a few seconds longer than typical push notifications but dramatically increases account security. It also works with the existing Duo app—no need to download new apps or tools.
Where will I have to use the new Verified Duo Push? 
Verified Duo Push is designed to work with web-based login prompts, so only those services will support this new function. Non-web browser applications, such as the Rutgers VPN, will continue to see the standard Duo push that does not require the 3-digit verification code. 
What are the minimum Duo Mobile app requirements? 
To use Verified Duo Push, a supported version of the Duo Mobile app must be installed and activated on your mobile device.
Effective February 2, 2026, the requirements for each operating system are: 
•	Android: Duo Mobile app version 4.85.0
•	iOS: Duo Mobile version 4.85.0
Note that the Duo app can only be installed on supported versions of iOS or Android that are noted in the article Update iOS and Android Software Versions to Use Two-Step Login with Duo. 
If you have an older version of Duo Mobile, you will receive a Duo Push request without the code entry field. When you try to approve, the login will fail, and you will see a message instructing you to update your software.
" KB0013069 Two-step login FAQ What are the different Duo authentication passcodes available? "
Duo Mobile passcodes
These are one-time-use passcodes generated by the Duo Mobile application. You can use this code as your two-step login with Duo on all services. 
SMS passcodes
These are sent to your device via an SMS text message. When requested, you will receive one code in a text message. SMS codes are single-use; if you send multiple codes to your phone, only the most recent code is valid. 
Bypass codes
These are generated from the Duo Administration Service. The Rutgers OIT Help Desk can provide these codes based on user needs. Each bypass code is good for 2 uses for two hours after the code is generated. You can use these codes to authenticate your two-step login with Duo for all services. To avoid needing a bypass code, having a second device on one's Duo account is encouraged. 
Duo Hardware Tokens
These are thumb-sized plastic devices that generate codes you enter after your NetID password to access Rutgers services. For more information, visit Duo hardware token information.
" KB0013060 Two-step login FAQ What benefits do I get when I use two-step login with Duo? "
Using two-step login protects your information and makes the university more secure. Two-step login protects personal data, such as direct deposit information and social security numbers, as well as sensitive university data. By using two-step login, you’re protecting yourself and the university from hacking, phishing, and other cyber-attacks.
" KB0013088 Two-step login FAQ What do I do if I lost my Duo device or it is unavailable? "
If you lost your device or do not have it available for two-step login, contact your department’s IT staff or the OIT Help Desk. The OIT Help Desk can provide you with a temporary bypass code that you can use until your device becomes available or to enroll a new device. Please enroll multiple devices or methods to verify your identity to avoid this situation.
" KB0013072 Two-step login FAQ What do I need to have before enrolling in DUO? "
Before enrolling in DUO, you will need to have the following: 
•	Access to a computer to sign up.
•	Access to the device you are enrolling (e.g., iOS/Android smartphones, tablets, laptops). This cannot be the same device used in step 1.
•	Access to the Internet.
•	NetID & NetID Password.
•	Access to the Apple App Store or Google Play Store to download the DUO Mobile Application.
For instructions on enrolling, refer to the Duo Enrollment Guide. 
" KB0013076 Two-step login FAQ "What is a ""Duo hardware token,"" and where do I get one?" "
A hardware token is a special physical security device used to confirm your identity with two-step login. Learn how to get a hardware token.
Duo supports any OATH HOTP-compatible tokens that are available to Rutgers employees. YubiKey USB tokens are also supported.
" KB0013061 Two-step login FAQ What is Duo?
Duo Security is the provider of Multi-Factor authentication (two-step login) at the university.
KB0013080 Two-step login FAQ What is the expected battery life of Duo hardware tokens? "
Duo hardware tokens have an expected battery lifetime of 2 years. Batteries cannot be replaced. If your token has died, you may order a replacement hardware token from the Software Portal. 
" KB0013099 Two-step login FAQ What services of Rutgers Connect require Duo two-step login? "
Rutgers Connect includes the Microsoft Office 365 suite of applications, whether you access them from your browser via the Rutgers Connect Website or via the downloaded application. These services include Outlook, Teams, OneDrive, and Office applications such as Word, PowerPoint, and Excel. You can see a full list of the Rutgers Connect applications by logging into Rutgers Connect and selecting the App Launcher in the top left, then click All Apps. Two-step login with Duo is required for all of these applications. 
" KB0015155 Two-step login FAQ What should I do when I receive an unexpected Duo prompt? "
Two-step login with Duo is an additional security measure to protect your account and information in case your password is compromised. You should NEVER approve a two-step login request from Duo if you did not prompt for it and are not expecting it.
If you get an unexpected Duo prompt, follow the instructions provided to report a fraudulent attempt to gain access to your account:
1.	Deny the Duo request prompt.
o	For push notifications: click Deny on the notification you receive, or I'm not logging in on the Duo app. If you open the Duo app to deny the request, it will then ask if this was a suspicious login: 
	Press Yes if you were not expecting the push. This will be reported to the Rutgers Information Security Office, and you will receive an email with further instructions.
	Press No if this was a mistake, and it will not be reported.
2.	To ensure your account is secure, immediately go to the NetID Management page, click on Manage NetID Password, and log in to reset your password.
3.	If you use this same password for any other personal accounts (which is not recommended), make sure you change those passwords as well in case the attacker tries to use it to access your other accounts.
When receiving push notifications, the Duo app will also show the approximate location of where the request originated. This can further help identify if it is a fraudulent attempt to gain access to your account from a location you are not currently near.
Be aware that if someone is trying to access your account, they may send repeated Duo prompts to annoy you into approving it. This is a sign of an active attack; you should deny every request and change your NetID password as soon as possible, which should also stop all fraudulent Duo prompts.
Should you have any further questions about an unexpected Duo prompt, contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0013095 Two-step login FAQ When can I request a Duo hardware token replacement? "
A hardware token replacement can be provided in the following instances:
•	Lost token.
•	The token battery is dead.
•	The token is damaged, and you cannot read the digits displayed.
•	The button is not working.
" KB0013070 Two-step login FAQ When should I use push vs. passcode for Duo authentication? "
It is your choice! Note that the Verified Duo Push approval method requires an active internet connection on your enrolled device. This may require Wi-Fi or a valid Data Plan for the Push method to work properly.
If you do not have an active internet connection, it's recommended to utilize the DUO Mobile Generated Passcodes method to authenticate. 
Verified Duo Push 
Benefits
This is the best primary device for most people. Enter a verification code on your smartphone or tablet when you log in via the Duo Mobile App. 
Disadvantages
This requires using your personal device and an active internet connection. You will need to download the Duo Mobile App on your enrolled device. This may not be viable if you work at a place that does not allow personal devices, such as a testing center or a corrections facility.
Duo Mobile Generated Passcodes
Benefits
This is a great secondary method if you do not have an internet connection on your device. It allows you to generate a code to log in to the Duo Mobile App.
Disadvantages
This requires you to use your personal device. This may not be viable if you work at a place that does not allow personal devices, such as a testing center or a corrections facility.
Additional Inofrmation
To view other available authentication methods, view the list of Two-step Login with Duo Authentication Methods. 
" KB0013098 Two-step login FAQ Where do I get support for two-step login with Duo? "
For assistance, contact your department’s IT staff or the OIT Help Desk. The Office of Information Technology offers in-person support at the computer labs and help desk, or remote support over the phone and through email. 
" KB0013063 Two-step login FAQ Who will use two-step login with Duo? "
Starting in April 2022, the university requires all Rutgers students, faculty, staff, student workers, and others to use two-step login with Duo to access most services and tools requiring a NetID login. 
For more information, visit the Rutgers Information Technology Newsroom article regarding Students: Protecting your info with Duo. 
" KB0013074 Two-step login FAQ Will I be notified if someone else attempts to access my online resources? "
Using two-step authentication with Duo, you will be notified via one of the authentication methods provided by Duo Security. With Duo, you can either approve the login requests or report them as fraud with a click of a button.
If you believe someone else is attempting to access your online resources, you should report it as fraud with Duo. Follow the guide on what to do when you receive an unexpected Duo prompt.
" KB0013100 Two-step login FAQ Will I need to authenticate with Duo when using Rutgers services on campus? "
If you are connected to RUWireless Secure or with an Ethernet cable on campus, you will still need to authenticate with Duo to access Rutgers services.
If you are connected at home, on a mobile hotspot, or via a non-secure wireless network on campus, you will need to authenticate with Duo to access Rutgers services. If you use the Rutgers VPN while connected this way, you will not be prompted for Duo when signing in to Rutgers services.
Further information regarding the Rutgers VPN can be found on the Rutgers VPN site. 
" KB0012446 Two-Step Login with Duo "Adding, removing and renaming devices for two-step login with Duo" "
Have a new phone? Want to add a security key? You can easily add new devices right from the Duo Prompt.
Note: If you need to add a hardware token, please follow the directions on the hardware token information page. If you would like to use Touch ID, please follow the directions on the Touch ID information page.
Table of Contents
•	Enroll a New Device
•	Change Device Name
•	Remove a Device
Enroll a New Device
1.	On your computer, go to the Two-factor authentication set-up and management page.
2.	Enter your NetID and NetID password to log in.
3.	Click the Other options link on the authentication page to view your list of available authentication methods.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Select the Manage devices option at the bottom of the list to open the device management portal.

    Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Choose an authentication method and complete two-factor authentication to begin adding your new device.
o	If you're adding a new device to replace one that you previously activated for Duo Push, don't select the Duo Push authentication method on this page unless you still have the original device.
o	If you don't have the original device but you have a new device with the same phone number, you can authenticate with an SMS passcode.
o	You can't add a new device from this page if you do not have access to any of your previously enrolled authentication devices; you'll need to contact the OIT Help Desk for assistance.
6.	After approving a Duo authentication request, you can see all your registered devices in the device management portal. Click Add a device to begin.

    Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Proceed with the device enrollment process as shown in the initial Enrollment Guide. 
Change Device Name
1.	On your computer, go to the Two-factor authentication set-up and management page. 
2.	Enter your NetID and NetID password to log in.
3.	Click the Other options link on the authentication page to view your list of available authentication methods.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Select the Manage devices option at the bottom of the list to open the device management portal.

    Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Choose an authentication method and complete two-factor authentication.
6.	After approving the Duo authentication request, you can see all your registered devices in the device management portal. 

    Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Click Edit and then Rename to give a device a new name to help you identify it. This new name appears in the verification method list and on the authentication page when you log in with Duo, making it easier for you to identify which device you're using. Hardware tokens can't be renamed.

    Error! Filename not specified.
 
Remove a Device
1.	On your computer, go to the Two-factor authentication set-up and management page. 
2.	Enter your NetID and NetID password to log in.
3.	Click the Other options link on the authentication page to view your list of available authentication methods.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Select the Manage devices option at the bottom of the list to open the device management portal.

    Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Choose an authentication method and complete two-factor authentication.
6.	After approving the Duo authentication request, you can see all your registered devices in the device management portal. 

    Error! Filename not specified.
7.	To delete a device, click Edit and then Remove. You'll be able to confirm that you want to remove this device before deleting it. Once deleted, a verification device can't be restored, but if you still have the device available, you can add it again. You can't delete your only identity verification device.

    Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0012620 Two-Step Login with Duo Can I opt-out of two-step login with Duo? "
No, you are prohibited from opting out of two-step login with Duo. Rutgers requires two-step login with Duo for all members of the University. 
To learn more about Duo, visit the Rutgers Information Technology Two-step Login page. 
" KB0012534 Two-Step Login with Duo Duo hardware token information "
You are strongly encouraged to enroll using your mobile devices, such as smartphones and tablets. If you have enrolled using your mobile device, note that you can use Duo Mobile Passcode authentication without the need to use physical hardware tokens. Please read the instructions on the Duo Mobile Passcodes page. If you must use a hardware token, follow the instructions below.
Obtaining a hardware token
To request a hardware token, please visit the Rutgers Software Portal using the appropriate link below:
•	Security Hardware Token for Faculty/Staff
•	Security Hardware Token for Guests, Retirees and Emeritus
•	Security Hardware Token for Students
•	Security Hardware Token for Alumni 
•	Security Hardware Token Replacement
Your delivery options are USPS to your home address or Pickup at the Help Desk. Once your order is processed, you will be notified that your order has been shipped or is ready for pick up.
If you are picking up your token, please visit an OIT Help Desk at the address below during their normal operating hours:
Rutgers - New Brunswick
Davidson Hall Room 172 
96 Davidson Rd.
Piscataway, NJ 08854
Operating Hours
You may also pick up your token at the main Computing Center on each campus.
Rutgers - Newark
Hill Hall Room 109 
360 Martin Luther King Boulevard. 
Newark, NJ 07102
Operating Hours
Rutgers - Camden
Paul Robeson Library, First Floor
300 Fourth St.
Camden, NJ 08102
Operating Hours
Please tell the front desk you are picking up a hardware token ordered through the Software Portal. Make sure to bring your RUID or Driver’s License for identification purposes. If you are unable to pick up your token on campus, please contact the OIT Help Desk at 833-OIT-HELP (648-4357).
Enrolling with a hardware token
1.	After you get your hardware token, navigate to the Two-factor authentication set-up and management page from your computer. Once you have logged in, click on Enroll with a Hardware Token.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	You will see a page with a box to enter the serial number. Enter the serial number from the back of your DUO hardware token without any dashes or spaces.
 
     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click Submit. You will see a message confirming that you have successfully enrolled using a hardware token.
Using a hardware token
After enrolling the token, you can use it to authenticate on the two-step login with Duo prompt.
1.	On the Duo prompt, select Enter a Passcode.
2.	Press the button on your hardware token to generate a new passcode.
3.	Type the passcode into the space provided on your screen to log in.
" KB0013954 Two-Step Login with Duo Duo Quick Resources for OIT Staff "
Response to general concern about using Duo
Rutgers requires all users to use two-step login with Duo. You will need to use your NetID password and another method—typically a smartphone with the Duo app—to verify your identity when logging in to Canvas, myRutgers, Microsoft Office, OneDrive, ScarletMail, Zoom, and most other services that require a NetID. This reduces the risk that anyone but you will access your account, even if your password has been compromised. By using two-step login, you’re helping to protect yourself and the university from hacking, phishing, and other cyberattacks.
Accessibility concerns
Those who are requesting an exemption should be directed to https://ods.rutgers.edu/. Please note that, for privacy and legal reasons, you cannot request additional information about a user's disability or accessibility needs. 
Security concerns 
Security concerns or any escalated request for an exemption should result in the incident being created and assigned to the ISO – Information Security Office triage group. Please do not create an incident task.
Parents concerned about losing access to student information
Should set up a CommunityID, and the student can provide them access following the directions here. 
Frequent Resources
•	Enrollment guide for two-step login with Duo
•	How is Duo used in places such as exam rooms that forbid mobile phones?
•	Hardware token information
•	Getting Help article, which includes token resync directions
•	All public Duo articles
Common problems and solutions
•	Duo window does not pop up when they are trying to activate
o	Make sure that they temporarily enable pop-ups
•	Scanning the QR code does not work
o	Make sure they are scanning their own specific barcode generated by the Duo process and not the one in the knowledge article
•	Does not have the device on them (lost or another reason)
o	OIT Help Desk can generate a bypass code.
•	Got a new phone/changing phones
o	If the same number, they can use the code option (when they select enter passcode, it will show the option to send codes as SMS)
o	If it is a new number, the OIT Help Desk can generate a bypass code to set up a new device
•	Unable to use Duo app on a device with a language other than English
o	Duo Mobile will localize to English, French, German, Spanish, Japanese, or Portuguese (Brazilian) on iOS and Android based on the user's device language (Japanese and Spanish support added in Duo Mobile version 3.48.0 and newer; Brazilian Portuguese added in version 4.8.0 or newer).
Bypass notes
•	Before doing a bypass code, always verify that the user has no access to any device that could be used to authenticate.
•	If they get a new phone but keep the same number, they can still authenticate and receive codes by text.
•	If they have a new number but the same device and it has not been reset, they can use push or the code from the app to set up the device.
•	If they have a new number and a new device, but the device has been restored, they may be able to use push if the app data was restored from a previous device.
•	If none of these are available, proceed to request a bypass from the OIT Help Desk Full-Time staff.
" KB0016206 Two-Step Login with Duo Duo request failure due to outdated TLS "
Beginning June 30, 2023, Duo requires that all authentication requests come via TLS 1.2. The following connection requests will receive an error response from Duo, resulting in blocked MFA and end-users unable to log in to protected applications:
•	TLS 1.0/1.1 connection requests
•	TLS connection requests negotiated by unsupported cipher suites
This can affect connection requests from:
•	Duo Windows applications
•	Duo Unix on a Unix/Linux system with OpenSSL version 1.0.0 or earlier
•	Duo SDKs used by custom applications
•	Third-party SDKs that connect to Duo APIs
•	Duo LDAPS application for SSL VPN
•	Duo Mobile is still in use on older versions of Android
•	Any device used to access a Duo-protected application using an embedded browser, operating system, or web browser that is no longer supported by Duo
Duo recommends using updated software. All versions of macOS, Android, and iOS supported by Duo will be unaffected because their default configuration uses TLS 1.2 and secure cipher suites.
For more information, please refer to Duo's guide on support after TLS 1.0/1.1 end of life.  
" KB0012508 Two-Step Login with Duo Enrollment guide for two-step login with Duo "
Rutgers requires two-step login with Duo for all Rutgers students, faculty, staff, and guests. Visit the Rutgers Two-Step login with Duo page to learn more about Duo.
Two-step login helps protect your account by adding an extra layer of security beyond your password. With two-step login, you will need to provide additional identity verification to access many university online resources.
Duo Mobile is an app for your smartphone that helps you authenticate quickly and easily. Without it, you'll still be able to log in via text message, hardware token, or security key, but for the best experience, we recommend using Duo Mobile. After installing the app, you will receive a notification on your phone to approve your login.
Note: If you are required to obtain and enroll with a hardware token, please follow the directions on the hardware token information page.
Table of Contents
•	Enrolling
•	Logging in with Duo for the first time
•	Remembered Devices
Enrolling
1.	On your computer, go to the Two-factor authentication set-up and management page.
2.	Sign in with your NetID and click Next to begin enrolling your device.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Select the type of device you'd like to enroll. 
o	We recommend using Duo Mobile on a smartphone for the best experience, but you can also enroll a cell phone number, a security key, hardware token, or an iOS/Android tablet.
o	If you choose to use a phone number, follow the guide on how to set up a phone number instead.
o	It is highly recommended that, if enrolling with biometric authentication (e.g., Touch ID), you also enroll a second form of authentication, such as a phone number, in case you lose or do not have access to your device. 

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	After selecting Duo Mobile, select your country from the drop-down list, then enter your phone number.  
5.	Double-check that you entered it correctly and click Add phone number. If you're going to use Duo Mobile on a tablet (like an iPad) with no phone service, don't enter a phone number and click I have a tablet instead.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	If you entered a phone number, double-check that it's correct, then click Yes, it's correct to continue or No, I need to change it.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Download and install Duo Mobile on your phone or tablet from the Google Play Store or Apple App Store. Once you have Duo Mobile installed, click Next to display a barcode for you to scan with the Duo Mobile app.

Error! Filename not specified.Error! Filename not specified.
8.	Once installed on your device, open the Duo Mobile app and select the + button. Use your phone's camera viewfinder to position the barcode on your computer screen within the app's viewfinder, as shown below.

Error! Filename not specified.
9.	If you aren't able to scan the QR code, tap Or email activation code and then enter your email address to send the activation link to yourself. Follow the instructions in the email to activate the new account in Duo Mobile.
10.	When you receive confirmation that Duo Mobile was added, click Continue.

Error! Filename not specified.
11.	It's a good idea to add a second verification method as a backup if the first method you added isn't available to you at some point, like if you lose or forget your phone and need to log in with Duo. After registering your first verification method, when you click Continue, Duo prompts you to add another one. Choose any available method and follow the steps to add it. If you don't want to add another method at this time, click Skip for now.

Error! Filename not specified.
12.	After you add a second login verification method or skip it, you'll reach the end of the Duo setup process. Click Log in with Duo to log in to the application using the Duo method you just added.

Error! Filename not specified.
Setting up a phone number 
1.	After selecting the Phone number option, enter the cell phone number you'll have with you when you log in to a Duo-protected service. You can use your cell phone to receive a verification code via text message. 

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Verify that the phone number shown is accurate, then click Yes, it's correct to continue, or No, I need to change it to go back and enter the number again.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	You'll need to enter a code sent to that number by text message to confirm that you own it. Choose how you want to receive the code and enter it to complete verification and continue.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	When you receive confirmation that the new mobile phone number has been added for texts, click Continue to log in to the application with the passcode sent via text message from Duo.
Logging in with Duo for the first time
The first time you log in with Duo, it automatically selects one of your configured login options from a sequenced list of available options. If you don't want to use the method Duo automatically suggests for that application, cancel the Duo authentication in progress and click Other options. Then, select the method you want from the list.
Completing a Duo login sets the authentication method you used as the first choice. Future Duo logins from the same device and browser will automatically use that same method. If you cancel the authentication in process and choose a different device, then the device you use becomes the first choice. There is no way to turn off automatic device selection or to explicitly configure a default authentication device.
This is the sequence of authentication methods Duo uses when you first log in. If you don't have a specific authentication method set up, Duo automatically selects the next available option.
1.	Touch ID
2.	Security keys
3.	Verified Duo Push
4.	Duo Mobile generated passcodes
5.	Hardware token passcodes
6.	SMS passcodes
Remembered Devices
The first time you approve the Duo authentication request, you'll see the option to confirm the device is yours. This creates a trusted browser session that lets you skip Duo two-factor authentication when you log in again with the same browser and device, until that trust session expires. You are still required to authenticate with your NetID and Password each time, and your remembered device acts as a confirmation of your identity. Please note that this feature is browser-specific and not shared between different browsers. For example, if you log in with Chrome today and use Firefox later, it will ask you to authenticate again.
Do not select that this is your device when using a public or shared computer! This could leave your Duo session available to other users. Trust the browser only when you access applications from your own computer. Clicking on No, other people use this device will not create a trust session. You won't be asked to trust that device again for 14 days.
When your trusted browser session expires, you will need to use two-factor authentication again. The Duo Push, phone call, text message, and passcode authentication methods will already show the option to Remember Me checked for you. Leaving the option enabled creates a new trusted browser session. If you don't want to trust that browser again, uncheck the "Remember Me" box before proceeding with verification.
" KB0012616 Two-Step Login with Duo One-Time SMS passcode for Duo "
You may choose to use a one-time code when you don't have access to your authentication devices. Please be aware that this method is associated with costs to the university, and it is only recommended to be used as a backup method.
1.	When trying to authenticate with Duo, click the Other options link on the authentication page to view your list of available authentication methods.
2.	Choose the Send text message passcode option on the Duo prompt.
3.	When you land on the text message page, it will show that a text message was just sent to you with a passcode. When you receive the message, enter that passcode into the space provided and click Verify.

          Error! Filename not specified.
4.	If you did not receive the code or the code does not work, please select Send a new passcode.
5.	A new passcode will be sent to your smart device.
Note: These are one-time use codes that become invalid once used. If you select Send a new passcode multiple times, only the most recent passcode will remain valid. 
" KB0012667 Two-Step Login with Duo Setting up a security key for two-step login with Duo "
A security key is an external device that, when tapped or when the button is pressed, sends a signed response back to Duo to validate your login. Duo uses the WebAuthn authentication standard to interact with your security keys. You may also see WebAuthn referred to as "FIDO2".
To use a security key with Duo, make sure you have the following:
•	A supported security key. WebAuthn/FIDO2 security keys from Yubico or Feitian are good options. U2F-only security keys (like the Yubikey NEO-n) can't be used with the Universal Prompt.
•	A supported browser: Chrome, Safari, Firefox, or Edge. Refer to the Duo browser support table for minimum browser versions with security key support in Duo.
1.	On your computer, go to the Two-factor authentication set-up and management page.
2.	Enter your NetID and NetID password to log in. 
3.	Click the Other options link on the authentication page to view your list of available authentication methods.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Select the Manage devices option at the bottom of the list to open the device management portal. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Choose an authentication method and complete two-factor authentication to begin adding your new device.
6.	After approving a Duo authentication request, you can see all your registered devices in the device management portal. Click Add a device to begin.

     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Choose Security Key.
8.	Read the security key information and click Continue.
9.	Your browser prompts you to tap your security key to use it with Duo (Chrome example shown).

     Error! Filename not specified.
10.	When you receive confirmation that your security key has been added as a verification method, click Continue.

     Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0012701 Two-Step Login with Duo Setting up Touch ID for Duo "
Touch ID should only be set up for Duo as a secondary method of verification. Ensure you have another method set up in addition to Touch ID.
In order to use Touch ID with Duo, make sure you have the following:
•	A MacBook Pro, MacBook Air, or Apple Magic Keyboard with a Touch ID button.
•	A fingerprint enrolled in Touch ID on your device.
•	Chrome 70 or later. Safari and other browsers on macOS are not supported.
1.	On your computer, go to the Two-factor authentication set-up and management page. Enter your NetID username and password to login.
2.	Click the Other options link on the authentication page to view your list of available authentication methods. 

    Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Select the Manage devices option at the bottom of the list to open the device management portal.

    Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Choose an authentication method and complete two-factor authentication to begin adding Touch ID.
5.	After approving a Duo authentication request, you can see all your registered devices in the device management portal. Click Add a device to begin.
6.	Choose Touch ID.

     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	You will then get a message with instructions on enabling Touch ID, and click Continue.

     Error! Filename not specified.
8.	A pop-up window will appear asking you to tap the Touch ID sensor to enroll your MacBook. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
9.	You will then receive a confirmation that Touch ID has been added. Select Continue

     Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0012702 Two-Step Login with Duo Two-step Login with Duo Authentication Methods "
These are the available Duo authentication methods. To update your authentication methods, refer to the instructions for adding, renaming, or removing your Duo devices.
Host Features	 	 	 	 
Receives host/alternate host meeting notification	X	?	?	X
Attendance assignment/grading	X	?	X	X
Download the attendance report	?	?	?	?
Enforce presentation layout for all participants	X	X	X	?
Methods	Benefits	Disadvantages
Touch ID	This is a great secondary method for those with a device compatible with this biometric feature, such as a MacBook. 	This requires a fingerprint, and fingerprint sensors are highly sensitive and require a consistent finger. This may not be a viable option for those without compatible devices.  
Security Keys (U2F)	This is a good primary for those without a smart device who will only need to log in from a computer. This is inserted in your USB port and requires you to press a button to send a passcode to the computer..	This requires that you purchase a device. This device will only work on a computer with access to a USB port.
Verified Duo Push	This is the best primary device for most people. Use your smartphone or tablet to submit a 3-digit verification code when you log in through the Duo Mobile App. 	This requires your personal device and an active internet connection. You will need to download the Duo Mobile App on your enrolled device. This may not be viable if you work at a place that does not allow personal devices, such as a testing center or a corrections facility.
Duo Mobile Generated Passcodes	This is a great secondary method if you do not have an internet connection on your device. It allows you to generate a code to log in from the Duo Mobile App.	This requires you to use your personal device. This may not be viable if you work at a place that does not allow personal devices, such as a testing center or a corrections facility.
Hardware Token Passcodes	This is a great primary for those without a smart device. They are thumb-sized plastic devices that generate codes you enter after your NetID password to access Rutgers services. Tokens have an expected battery life of two years. Lost tokens can be replaced. 	This requires that you purchase a device. For students, it is $6.00. Hardware tokens also have non-replaceable batteries and need to be replaced every two years. Hardware tokens are small and can be easily lost. 
SMS Passcodes	This is a good secondary option for users with a texting-capable phone that is not a smart device. You will receive a code via text that you can use to log in. This option is recommended for flip phones. 	This method has a cost associated with it for the University. This requires your personal device and an active cellular connection. This may not be viable outside the United States or at workplaces that do not allow personal devices, such as testing centers or correctional facilities.
This is the sequence of authentication methods that Duo uses when you first log in. If you don't have a particular authentication method set up, then Duo automatically selects your next available option.
1.	Touch ID
2.	Security keys
3.	Duo Mobile push approval
4.	Duo Mobile generated passcodes
5.	Hardware token passcodes
6.	SMS passcodes
For more detailed information, please visit the Duo Support page regarding Duo Authentication Methods. 
" KB0012519 Two-Step Login with Duo Two-step login with Duo FAQs "
Table of Contents
•	I forgot to bring my mobile device or token to work. What do I need to do?
•	Logging in with a two-step bypass code
•	My hardware token doesn't work or needs to be resynced. What do I need to do?
•	If my hardware token is lost or stolen, what should I do?
•	Can I use two-step login without internet/cell service?
•	Can I use two-step when traveling internationally?
•	What are some of the common support issues?
•	Automatic push issues
•	Remember Me issues
•	Two-step integration form for non-web services
•	More Frequently Asked Questions
•	Who do I contact if I need help?
I forgot to bring my mobile device or token to work. What do I need to do?
If you have an alternate authentication method (such as a hardware token), use that; otherwise, contact the OIT Help Desk for a temporary bypass code.
Logging in with a two-step bypass code
After receiving a bypass code from the Help Desk for a lost device, you should immediately use it to enroll a new device and remove the old one. After you add a new device, you can use it to log in to the services you need. 
   Error! Filename not specified.
My hardware token doesn't work or needs to be resynced. What do I need to do?
If your token is not working it may need to be resynced, follow the steps below to reenable your token.
1.	
1.	Log in to the Two-factor authentication set-up and management page.
2.	Click Resync Hardware Token at the bottom left of the left menu.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Select the appropriate serial number of your token (if you have more than one), then enter 3 sequential codes and click Resync Hardware Token. 
     Note: There is a 10-30 second wait before a new pin can be generated, depending on your token model.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	You should receive the confirmation You have successfully synced your hardware token if successful. If not, try step 3 again, and if you experience further issues, contact the OIT Help Desk.

     Error! Filename not specified.
If my hardware token is lost or stolen, what should I do?
Contact the OIT Help Desk to initiate a replacement request and request a bypass code if needed. If you have an alternate device set up for two-step verification, use it to remove the hardware token from your account.
Can I use two-step login without internet/cell service?
The Duo mobile app can generate passcodes on Android and iOS without an internet connection. They can be entered on the two-step prompt as indicated below. The hardware token will also function without issue.
    Error! Filename not specified.
Can I use two-step when traveling internationally?
You can use Duo while traveling abroad. All authentication methods are available internationally, though some require internet or cell service. When cellular service or internet access is unavailable, the mobile push, and SMS options will not be available on your device. In this case, you can still use the Duo Mobile-generated passcodes as indicated above, a hardware token, or a security key if you have one. 
What are some of the common support issues?
View Duo's troubleshooting guide for more assistance.
Automatic push issues
If the prompt is set to automatically send a push notification to your device and you are trying to use another authentication method or add a new device, you must first click Other options, then choose an alternate method to verify.
        Error! Filename not specified.
     Error! Filename not specified.
Remember Me issues
The first time you approve the Duo authentication request, you'll see the option to confirm the device is yours. This creates a trusted browser session that will let you skip Duo two-factor authentication when you log in again with the same browser and device until that trust session expires. You are still required to authenticate with your NetID and Password each time, and your remembered device acts as a confirmation of your identity. Note that this feature is browser-specific and not shared between different browsers. For example, if you log in with Chrome today and use Firefox later, it will ask you to authenticate again.
Do not select that this is your device when using a public or shared computer! This could leave your Duo session available to other users. Trust the browser only when you access applications from your own computer. Clicking on No, other people use this device will not create a trust session. You won't be asked to trust that device again for 14 days.
The Remember Me feature relies on cookies, and when enabled correctly, you will not be prompted to complete two-factor authentication the next time you use the same browser. Be aware of the following restrictions that can impact the Remember Me feature and adjust your settings as necessary:
•	
o	Chrome Incognito and other private browsers do not provide support for Remember Me, as cookies are cleared at the end of the session.
o	Microsoft Edge has a “Delete browsing history on exit” in its General settings. If this is enabled, the Remember Me feature will not work.
o	Some browsers may have security settings that restrict cookies to only authorized sites. If so, add “duosecurity.com” as a trusted site.
Two-step integration form for non-web services
To integrate two-step (Duo) with a non-web service, fill out the access request form.
More Frequently Asked Questions
See our two-step login FAQ page for a list of more frequently asked questions and answers.
Who do I contact if I need help?
For any additional assistance, contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0015787 Two-Step Login with Duo Update iOS and Android Software Versions to Use Two-Step Login with Duo "
Which versions of iOS does Duo Mobile support?
The current version of Duo Mobile supports iOS 17.0 and greater, but cannot guarantee Duo Mobile's functionality on preview/beta software provided by Apple. Duo recommends upgrading your device to the most recent version of iOS. 
For more detailed information, visit the Duo Support page regarding compatible iOS versions with Duo Mobile. 
Which versions of Android does Duo Mobile support? 
The current version of Duo Mobile supports Android 12.0 and greater and Android Go 12.0 and greater. Duo recommends upgrading your device to the most recent version of Android. We cannot guarantee Duo Mobile's compatibility with custom variants or Android distributions. Duo Mobile is not supported on Chrome OS or Huawei devices. Duo does not provide official support for non-standard custom Android distributions like OnePlus, LineageOS, or ColorOS.
For more detailed information, visit the Duo Support page regarding compatible Android versions with Duo Mobile. 
How do I update my device?
The Office of Information Technology strongly recommends that you follow these instructions from Apple and Google Android Help, respectively, to update your device(s):
•	Updating iOS
•	Updating Android
Which authentication methods are affected?
Verified Duo Push and Duo Mobile passcodes will continue to work on devices running iOS 16 or Android 11 that already have Duo Mobile installed. However, you will not be able to upgrade your Duo app version.
If a new Duo mobile app version install is attempted on a device with an older operating system, the following authentication methods will not work:
•	Verified Duo Push
•	Duo Mobile Generated Passcodes
Which authentication methods are NOT affected?
The following methods are not affected in any way by incompatible software versions:
•	Touch ID
•	Security Keys (U2F)
•	Hardware Token Passcodes
•	SMS Passcodes
These authentication methods do not rely on Duo Mobile.
For further assistance, please contact your Department's IT Staff or the OIT Help Desk. 
" KB0012500 Two-Step Login with Duo Using Duo Mobile Passcodes "
After you have enrolled for two-step login with Duo, you can use the Duo mobile app on your device to generate a passcode that can be used to log in.
Note that this will work even if your device has no cellular or Wifi data connection or is in airplane mode.
1.	When trying to authenticate with Duo, click the Other options link on the authentication page to view your list of available authentication methods.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	 From the list, choose Use Duo Mobile passcode.

    Error! Filename not specified.
3.	On your mobile device, open the Duo mobile application.
4.	Select the Rutgers University New Jersey account. A six-digit passcode will be displayed.  
o	You can click Refresh Passcode in the mobile app to generate a new passcode.
o	Multiple valid passcodes can be generated this way.
o	They must be used in the order they were generated. Once a passcode is used, it and all previous passcodes generated prior to it will become invalid. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Enter this passcode into the field to authenticate your login and click Verify.

     Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0018785 Two-Step Login with Duo Verified Duo Push "
Starting on October 7, 2025, the Duo Push verification method will require an additional step. The new method, Verified Duo Push (VDP), displays a three-digit code on the device you are using to access Rutgers systems, rather than prompting a traditional push notification. You will be required to enter the code into the Duo app on your mobile device. This can be done by opening the app and entering the code when prompted or by interacting with and replying through the notification on your mobile device. 
How to complete a Verified Duo Push
1.	After logging into a Rutgers service and receiving a Duo push prompt, you will now see the following screen that contains a 3-digit verification code. 

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	On your mobile device, click on the notification to open the Duo Mobile app and enter the code. Once entered, click Verify. 

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Alternatively, you can interact with the notification on your phone, tablet, or watch. Choose Enter Code to enter your 3-digit code without having to open the Duo Mobile app. Once entered, click Approve or Send.  
o	On a watch, you can use the "Scribble" or "Dictate" text input options to make it easier to enter your code. 

Error! Filename not specified.
The first time you approve the Verified Duo Push request, you'll still see the option to confirm the device is yours. This creates a trusted browser session for 30 days. You are still required to authenticate with your NetID and Password each time, and your remembered device confirms your identity with Duo. 
Don't recognize a Duo Push request? Follow the instructions on what to do if you receive an unexpected Duo prompt.
See the Verified Duo Push FAQs for additional information. 
" KB0012727 Two-Step Login with Duo What is two-step login with Duo? "
What is Two-Step Login with Duo?
Two-Step Login with Duo is a service that provides additional security, enabling university systems to verify someone's identity with greater confidence. This is especially important for protected and sensitive systems.
Two-factor authentication adds a second layer of security to your online accounts. Verifying your identity with a second factor (such as your phone or another mobile device) prevents anyone but you from logging in, even if they know your password.
Error! Filename not specified.
1.	
1.	
1.	
1.	
1.	
1.	
1.	Enter username and password as usual
2.	Use your phone to verify your identity
3.	Securely logged in
Security Benefits
•	Adding a second layer of protection to your digital identity.
•	Further protects sensitive data you access, even if a NetID/password is compromised.
•	Helps mitigate phishing attacks by preventing access to sensitive information.
•	Meets new industry security regulations and compliance.
•	Conveniently functions on- and off-campus.
•	Enterprise License is centrally funded.
“Over 95% of attacks involve harvesting credentials from customer devices, then logging into web applications with them.” — Verizon 2015 Data Breach Investigations Report
Required for
•	All Active Rutgers University Employees (Faculty, Staff, Student Workers)
•	Active Guests (Visiting scholars, Contractors, etc.)
•	Active Students
•	Retirees
Enrollment
Follow the instructions on how to enroll in Two-Step Login with Duo. 
Note: It is best to enroll more than one device, such as a smartphone or tablet, to avoid difficulties authenticating when your primary device is unavailable. Smartphone authentication via Verified Duo Push and DUO Mobile passcodes is recommended.
How Does Two-Step Login with Duo Authentication Work?
After you enroll for Two-Step Login with Duo, when you access any University central authentication service (CAS) protected web application, you will complete the first authentication step by entering your Rutgers NetID and password in the CAS login page. You will then be prompted to complete the second step using any of the available DUO Security authentication methods you have set up.
International Traveler Information
Two-Step Login with Duo can be used while traveling abroad. All available authentication methods should work. When cellular service and internet access are unavailable, push notifications and SMS passcodes will not be available on your device. In this case, you can still use the Duo Mobile Passcodes or hardware token if you have one. 
" KB0018269 Video & Multimedia How to Add a Collaborator to or Change the Owner of Kaltura Media "
Owners of videos hosted in Kaltura can share them with other Kaltura users. Videos can be shared with permissions ranging from view-only access to full editing and publishing capabilities.
If a user no longer wishes to own a video, either due to leaving the University or a job change, the video owner may elect to transfer ownership of the video to someone else.
Note: To share or transfer video ownership, the target user must have previously logged in to Rutgers Mediaspace or Kaltura, which is integrated into Canvas. 
Table of Contents
•	Find Kaltura Entry
•	Add a Collaborator
•	Change Ownership
Find Kaltura Entry
1.	Log in to Rutgers Mediaspace or Kaltura integrated in Canvas.
2.	Locate the video entry and go into its Editor.
Add a Collaborator
1.	Click on the Collaboration tab.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click +Collaborator.
3.	In the Add a Collaborator pop-up, type in the NetID or name of the user. 

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Once the other user’s name appears, select the permissions they should have and click Add. 
o	A Co-Editor allows users to trim and generally edit videos.
o	A Co-Publisher allows users to publish videos into other channels or courses.
o	A Co-Viewer would only be able to see and play the video in their own Media account.
5.	You will now see the Collaborator and their permissions on the Collaboration page. 
Error! Filename not specified.
Change Ownership
1.	Click on the Collaboration tab.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click Change Media Owner. 
3.	In the Change Media Owner pop-up, type in the new owner’s name or NetID. Once it appears, select it. Then, click Save.
4.	The video will no longer appear in your Media account and will now be owned by the designated user.
" KB0018270 Video & Multimedia How to upload videos to My Kaltura in Canvas "
Kaltura, like YouTube, is a service that hosts videos for others to view and share. Kaltura can be accessed through MediaSpace or Canvas via My Kaltura Media. Videos can be uploaded, viewed, and edited through here. This knowledge article will outline the steps to upload videos to My Kaltura Media in Canvas. 
How to upload a video to My Kaltura Media
1.	In Canvas, click on My Kaltura Media on the left in the Global Navigation bar. 
2.	In the top right, click + Create. 
3.	From the drop-down, click Upload.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	On the Upload page, either drag and drop the video file from the desktop or click Select Files to open the computer's file explorer.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Allow the video to upload until it is complete.

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	When you click on My Kaltura Media on the left side of Canvas, the video thumbnail should appear.  
o	Note: The video may not be immediately playable, as it requires time to process. The longer the video, the longer the processing time. For example, a one-hour video will likely require an hour of processing time. However, while processing the video, it can still be embedded into Canvas pages, assignments, or other locations using the Canvas Rich Content Editor.
File Types That Are Supported
Video
•	3GPP (.3gp)
•	Advanced Systems Format (.asf)
•	Audio Video Interleave (.avi)
•	Flash Video (.f4v, .flv)
•	Material eXchange Format (.mxf)
•	Matroska Multimedia Container (.mkv)
•	MPEG Transport Stream (.ts)
•	MPEG-1 Video (.m1v, .mpg, .mpeg)
•	MPEG-2 Video (.m2v)
•	MPEG-4 Video (.m4v)
•	Multimedia Viewer Book (.mvb)
•	Ogg (.ogg, .ogv)
•	QuickTime (.mov, .qt)
•	RealMedia (.rm)
•	RealVideo (.rv)
•	Video Object (.vob)
•	WebM (.webm)
•	Windows Media (.wm, .wmv)
Audio
•	3GPP (.3gp)
•	Adaptive Multi-Rate (.amr)
•	Advance Audio Coding (.aac, .m4a, .mp4)
•	Advanced Systems Format (.asf)
•	Audio Interchange File Format (.aif, .aiff)
•	Audio Video Interleave (.avi)
•	Flash Video (.f4v, .flv)
•	MPEG-1 or MPEG-2 Audio Layer III (.mp3)
•	Ogg (.ogg, .oga)
•	QuickTime (.mov, .qt)
•	RealAudio (.ra)
•	RealMedia (.rm)
•	Waveform Audio File Format (.wav, .wave)
•	WebM (.webm)
•	Windows Media (.wm, .wma)
Image
•	Bitmap Image (.bmp)
•	Graphics Interchange Format (.gif)
•	JPEG (.jpe, .jpeg, .jpg)
•	Portable Network Graphics (.png)
•	Tagged Image File Format (.tif, .tiff)
Additional Resources
•	How to Add Kaltura Content to a Canvas course
•	MediaSpace Overview
" KB0016344 Video & Multimedia Kaltura - Capture Desktop App "
Kaltura Capture, also known as the Kaltura Capture desktop recorder, is an application that enables anyone to create videos anywhere.
Kaltura Capture has a simple user interface that requires only one click to record, with no complex setup or lengthy learning curve. Kaltura capture is supported on both Windows and Mac. You can record: two camera inputs at once, two screens, or a camera and a screen. Kaltura Capture uploads new videos to the Kaltura Mediaspace video portal and to the My Kaltura Media integration in Canvas. There is a 2-hour limit to capture recordings.
Kaltura Capture includes:
•	Screen and webcam capture in one click
•	Automatic slide detection and creation of searchable chapters
•	Support for software management installation
•	Seamless uploading to Learning and Content Management Systems and Kaltura MediaSpace
•	Intuitive user interface
Table of Contents
•	Installation
•	Getting Started
•	Recording Options
•	Capturing your recording
•	Uploading your recording
•	Additional Resources
Installation
1.	Log in to your Rutgers MediaSpace account or go to the My Kaltura Media tool in your Canvas Account.
2.	Click the + Create button and select Capture from the dropdown menu.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click the appropriate download link for your operating system. 

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Launch the installer and follow the instructions to install Kaltura Capture. 
o	Windows: Double-click the downloaded .msi file to launch the installer (you may need administrative permissions).
o	Mac OS: Double-click the .dmg to mount its contents, then drag the application from the .dmg window into the Applications folder to install. You may need an administrator password. 
Getting Started
Initially, Kaltura Capture must be launched from the Kaltura Mediaspace video portal or from the My Kaltura Media integration within Canvas. After the desktop application has been paired with the online service, you can launch it directly from the desktop.
After installing the desktop application, go to your account in Rutgers MediaSpace or to My Kaltura Media in your Canvas Account, click + Create, and select Capture as was done to install the app. When the app is already installed, this option opens a prompt asking whether you would like to launch the program. Depending on the browser, checking the box to Remember my choice or Always use this app will launch the app without prompting on future attempts.
Once you have paired your desktop application to the web service, you may click the icon on your computer to launch the app directly.
Recording Options
In Kaltura Capture, the default selection is to use the screen as the primary input and the camera as the secondary input. To record only one input, select the input and disable the other. Once launched, the Kaltura Capture Recorder is displayed.
1.	The Record button will start a recording.
2.	The up and down arrows to the right of the computer and camcorder icons will toggle the preview window for their respective recording sources.
3.	Clicking the computer, camcorder, or microphone icons toggles their respective recording options on or off. When the option is enabled, the icon has a blue outline. When disabled, the icon will be gray with a line through it.
4.	The ^ or ? next to the microphone icon lets you select your audio source.
5.	The Preview Window displays an image of what will be recorded from that source. It also has options to select the source from a drop-down menu and to record full screen or a specific area.
6.	Clicking the Manage link opens your recording Library and provides access to the Settings and Information about the Recorder.

Error! Filename not specified.
Additional information on specific recording scenarios, including presentations, is available at Kaltura Capture – Recording Options.
Capturing your recording
Once the record button is clicked, a 5-second countdown will appear before the recording begins, and the recording controls will appear in the lower-right corner of your screen. These controls are visible by default during recording, but they can be hidden.
1.	The Stop button stops your recording. Once clicked, you will get a pop-up asking you to confirm that you wish to conclude your recording. Once concluded, your Library will open.
2.	The Pause / Play button lets you pause your recording. Clicking it again will resume the recording.
3.	The Cancel button will cancel your recording, and nothing will be saved.
4.	The Timer indicates the length of your current recording.
5.	The Microphone icon can be toggled to enable or disable audio recording.
6.	The Screen Drawing toggle will toggle the screen drawing panel on or off.
7.	The Screen Drawing Panel provides tools for drawing on your screen while recording.
8.	The Minimize icon will minimize the recording controls to the taskbar in Windows or the dock in macOS, effectively hiding them during the recording. There are Keyboard Shortcuts you can use while the controls are minimized.

Error! Filename not specified.
Uploading your recording
After you end your recording, you will be directed to the entry page. If you click Stop by mistake, you can always click Cancel to return your recording to a paused state. If you want to complete the recording, enter the following information:
1.	Title of the recording
2.	Description
3.	Tags
4.	Click Save and Upload or Save to save your recording.

Error! Filename not specified.
When you save a recording without uploading it, the Management window opens with the Edit tab, displaying options to Upload or Delete your media. You may select Delete all uploaded files to delete all uploaded media files from your local storage to save disk space.
When uploading, follow the onscreen prompts, and the upload must be completed before exiting the program. 
The Management Window opens to your Library by default, which contains your recordings and the following controls:
1.	The Library button can be used to access your video library
2.	The Information button includes details on the player version and the account it is linked to.
3.	Clicking a video thumbnail will allow you to View your recordings
4.	The New Recording button will begin a new video recording.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	The Settings button lets you set the default recording quality and whether the cursor is highlighted.

Error! Filename not specified.
Additional Resources
•	Kaltura Capture – User Guide
•	Kaltura Capture Recording Options
•	Kaltura Capture – Recording PowerPoint Slides
•	Kaltura Capture Keyboard Shortcuts
" KB0016282 Video & Multimedia Kaltura - Course Gallery Guide "
The Kaltura Course Gallery is the space in the course where instructors can upload videos or add videos from My Kaltura Media. Videos added here are public to anyone enrolled in the Canvas course site.
Table of Contents
•	How to upload a video directly from personal files
•	How to add a video already in My Kaltura Media
•	How to copy an entire gallery from a previous semester/other course site
•	How to remove a video from the Kaltura Course Gallery in a course
How to upload a video directly from personal files
1.	Log in to Rutgers Canvas and navigate to your Canvas course.
2.	Click on Kaltura Course Gallery in the course navigation. If it is not listed, enable it by managing the course navigation links in course settings.
3.	Click +Add Media.
4.	Click Add New, then select Media Upload from the drop-down bar. 
5.	On the next page, either drag and drop the video file or click Choose a file to upload to locate and select the desired video file.

     Error! Filename not specified.
6.	Wait for the video to upload. Once complete, an Upload Completed message is displayed.
7.	The video will still need time to process. However, once processed, it will be published immediately in the Kaltura Course Gallery. For more information on allowed file types and the conversion process, please refer to the MediaSpace documentation. 
How to add a video already in My Kaltura Media
1.	Log in to Rutgers Canvas and navigate to your Canvas course.
2.	Click on Kaltura Course Gallery in the course navigation. If it is not listed, enable it by managing the course navigation links in course settings.
3.	Click +Add Media.
4.	Videos previously uploaded to My Kaltura Media but not shared in the Media Gallery may be selected (A). Videos shared with this specific Media Gallery will be grayed out (B) next to them. Select videos to share.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Once videos have been selected, click Publish at the top of the page. The user will then be returned to the Kaltura Course Gallery, where the video is now published to the course site. 
How to copy an entire gallery from a previous semester/other course site
1.	Log in to Rutgers Canvas and navigate to your Canvas course.
2.	Click on Kaltura Course Gallery in the course navigation. If it is not listed, enable it by managing the course navigation links in course settings.
3.	Go to Kaltura Course Gallery, and click on Channel Actions in the upper right to access the Import option. Click Import.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	A list of courses with Kaltura Course Galleries will appear. Select the desired course and click Import.
5.	Depending on how many videos are present, they may take some time to appear in the destination Course Gallery. However, all videos will soon be added and published to the current Kaltura Course Gallery. This process does not create a new copy of your videos; it merely publishes to the Course Gallery.
How to remove a video from the Kaltura Course Gallery from a course
Removing media from a gallery will not delete it from your account. To learn more, see Delete media, and Restore items from the Recycle bin.
1.	Log in to Rutgers Canvas and navigate to your Canvas course.
2.	Click on Kaltura Course Gallery in the course navigation. If it is not listed, enable it by managing the course navigation links in course settings.
3.	Hover your cursor over the video and click the three dots.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click the X to remove the media entry from the channel.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	In the pop-up window, select Remove to remove the video from the Kaltura Course Gallery. Your browser page will refresh. 
" KB0016284 Video & Multimedia Kaltura - How do I add Kaltura content to my Canvas course? "
Kaltura Browse-Search-Embed allows users to embed Kaltura media into native Canvas content created with the Rich Content Editor (RCE). The RCE is available to instructors in Classic Quizzes, New Quizzes, Announcements, Pages, Assignments, Discussions, and Syllabus; for students, it is available in Discussion responses, Assignment submissions, and tools in Group spaces such as group Pages, group Announcements, and group Discussions. Kaltura Media Gallery provides a central location for all media shared in your course site (without context). This article provides directions for sharing Kaltura Media in your course using the Rich Content Editor via Browser-Search-Embed.
Embedding
1.	Log in to Rutgers Canvas.
2.	Navigate to your Canvas course or group space.
3.	Create new (or edit existing) Canvas content.
4.	Using the Rich Context Editor, place your cursor where you want to add your Kaltura media.
5.	Click Apps (A) in the toolbar. Depending on your screen size, you may need to click More (B) to display the icon. In the Apps menu, click Embed Kaltura Media (C). You may need to click View All (D) to find the Kaltura option. However, a shortcut will be created for future use after doing this.

Error! Filename not specified.
6.	A pop-up will appear. Scroll down (1) or search (2) for Embed Kaltura Media. Click Embed Kaltura Media (3).
 
Error! Filename not specified.
7.	In the Embed Kaltura Media pop-up, you may search for your video (A), Embed your selection (B), or click the Slider (C) for more embed options.

Error! Filename not specified.
8.	If you select the Slider icon, you are presented with embed settings to choose a player (1) and designate an embed size (2). 
o	Note: There are four selectable players: Main Kaltura Player, Allow Download, Play/Stop/Review Only, and Transcript Closed. 
	Main Kaltura Player will allow viewers to utilize all Kaltura functions except the ability to download the media.
	Video & Transcript Download is the main Kaltura player and also allows media to be downloaded.
	Playback Only prevents viewers from fast-forwarding or jumping to specific timestamps.
	Transcript Closed is the main Kaltura player, but the transcript is closed by default. Viewers can click Show Transcript to view the transcript.
	Audio Player: supports audio-only media in a player with a smaller size. The transcript does not automatically display upon play.
	Loop Player is the Transcript Closed player that replays the video repeatedly until stopped. Viewers can click Show Transcript to view the transcript.
	Transcript Download is built into the main Kaltura player and allows you to download the transcript file.

Error! Filename not specified.
9.	Set these as your default settings (3). Once configured, click Embed (4).
 
Error! Filename not specified.
10.	The pop-up window will close, and the selected Kaltura media will be displayed in the Rich Content Editor.
11.	Add any additional text or content. Scroll down and click Save. The Kaltura video will now be displayed as part of the content.
Additional resources
•	How do I add and modify text in the Rich Content Editor?
•	How to upload videos to My Kaltura in Canvas
" KB0018521 Video & Multimedia Kaltura - How do I use the Kaltura media player? "
Course instructors may share instructor-generated videos in a Canvas course or through links or embeds from Rutgers MediaSpace. The videos may be available in the Kaltura Course Gallery or embedded on a Canvas page, assignment, discussion, announcement, or Canvas quiz question. The video player is powered by the Kaltura V7 media player. Some media player features will depend on how the course instructor shared the video. 
When you visit web content that displays the V7 player, viewers will not see any player controls until you click Play. After you press play, the controls and menus appear. 
Kaltura V7 Media Player in Canvas
Kaltura V7 media players available in Rutgers Canvas are listed below. All video players using the Kaltura integration in Canvas display the transcript during playback. Depending on the selected video's size, the transcript may completely cover the video.  Viewers should view the video in full screen or close the transcript. Video and audio players do not have a share button because users must be logged in to Canvas to play the media.
•	Main Player: supports dual-screen video, playlists, documents, images, live streams, and 360 ° & VR media. The transcript will open upon play.
•	Video & Transcript Download Player: includes all the same features as the Main player and allows course participants to download the transcript, captions, attachments, and video.
•	Playback-only Player: includes all the same features as the Main player. The viewer will not be able to skip ahead in the video timeline. Viewers may skip back to a point in the timeline that they have already viewed.
•	Audio Player: supports audio-only media in a player with a smaller size. The transcript does not automatically display upon play.
•	Loop Player: is the Transcript Closed player, but replays the video continuously until it is stopped. Viewers can click Show Transcript to view the transcript.
•	Transcript Closed: is the main Kaltura player, but the transcript is closed by default. Viewers can click Show Transcript to view the transcript.
•	Transcript Download: is the main Kaltura player and allows downloading the transcript file.
Kaltura V7 Media Player from MediaSpace Links or Embeds
Kalura V7 media players available in Rutgers MediaSpace are listed below. All media players and embed codes from Rutgers MediaSpace include a share button and the option to view transcripts. Share links and embed codes distributed via Canvas do not automatically display the transcript when the video is played, and video analytics do not capture viewer information.
•	Main Player: supports dual-screen video, playlists, documents, images, live streams, and 360 ° & VR media. The transcript does not appear when play is started.
•	Transcript Player: includes all the same features as the Main player, with the transcript appearing upon play.
•	Download Player: includes all the same features as the Main player and allows any viewer to download the transcript, captions, attachments, and video.
•	Audio Player: supports audio-only media in a player with a smaller size.
•	Transcript Open: supports dual-screen video, playlists, documents, images, livestream, and 360 & VR media. The transcript will open upon play.
•	Loop Player: replays the video continuously until stopped. Viewers can click Show Transcript to view the transcript.
•	No Sharing: based on the Main Player, but does not include the information icon, sharing option, or transcript.
•	No Sharing with Transcript Download: based on the Main Player, but does not include the information icon or sharing option. Viewers can download the video transcript.
Kaltura V7 Media Player Features
Error! Filename not specified.
The features of the Kaltura V7 media player are:
1.	Play/pause
2.	Seek forward or backward 10 seconds
3.	Elapsed and total time
4.	Volume
5.	Show/Hide extended audio descriptions (EAD), which requires the EAD toggle to be on
6.	Closed captions on/off
7.	Settings for caption style, playback quality, playback speed, and, if available, enable the extended audio description toggle 
o	Users may customize on-screen captions, adjust playback speed, or change video resolution.
o	If a video has extended audio description (EAD), the toggle to show the option is available and must be enabled to use the show/hide audio descriptions button in the video player. 
8.	Fullscreen
9.	Rutgers University homepage
10.	Video progress bar with chapters identified, if available
11.	Show both video streams side-by-side
12.	Switch video streams 
13.	Hide/show secondary stream
14.	Hide/show playlist
15.	Enable video float
16.	Show/hide search and navigation 
o	Words or phrases are searched across captions, chapter titles, and chapter descriptions added to the video as metadata. 
o	If chapter points are included, thumbnails are included in the navigation.
17.	Hide/show video transcript
18.	Download video (if available)
19.	Video information
" KB0016302 Video & Multimedia Kaltura - How to Download a Kaltura Media File "
Kaltura serves as a video repository and provides video hosting. Your uploaded video files may be downloaded using these steps. Kaltura videos are accessed through My Kaltura Media in Canvas or Rutgers MediaSpace.
Table of Contents
•	How to Find a Media Entry
•	How to Find the Media Entry Editor 
•	How to Download Your Entry
How to Find a Media Entry
1.	Log in to Rutgers Mediaspace or Rutgers Canvas.
2.	Access My Media by one of these methods: 
o	Mediaspace - In Rutgers Mediaspace, click on the account icon on the top right (1), then click Login (2). Once logged in, you can access My Media in the top navigation menu (3).

     Error! Filename not specified.
o	Canvas - In Canvas, click Account (1), then click My Kaltura Media (2). You may also access My Kaltura Media (3) in your Canvas global navigation. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
How to Find the Media Entry Editor 
Access the video entry editor by doing the following:
1.	Click the three dots (A) to the right of the video.
2.	Select Edit (B).

Error! Filename not specified.
How to Download Your Entry
1.	On the media edit page, click the play button for your entry.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	The top control bar is now visible in the upper right. Click the download icon.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	The download menu appears as an overlay. Click the download button for each file you would like to download. A video entry may have a main video stream (A), additional stream(s) (B) if the entry was recorded with additional sources, caption or audio description files (C), and any file attachments (D) that were uploaded to the attachment tab as part of the media entry. 

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	You will be prompted to save the file using your system dialog. Navigate to the location on your computer where you saved the file.
" KB0016290 Video & Multimedia Kaltura - How to Edit Captions "
Automated captions, powered by WhiperAI, are enabled in Rutgers MediaSpace, powered by Kaltura. When a video is uploaded to MediaSpace via the standalone website or through Rutgers Canvas, captions are generated using automatic speech recognition.  This service provides 70-95% accuracy.  Video owners will need to review and edit their captions to increase accuracy to meet accessibility standards.
If you are an instructor in a Canvas course or if you share videos from Rutgers MediaSpace, you may wish to notify your students to report any errors to you. Include a note in your syllabus that all captions are machine-generated and to contact the instructor regarding inaccuracies.
Table of Contents
•	How to Find your Caption Editor
•	How to Edit Your Captions
•	Editor Options 
o	Change Caption File
o	Edit the Timestamp of Each Line
o	Search
o	Search and Replace Text
o	Add Speaker ID
o	Auto-Scroll Text
o	Fast Forward Seek Backward
o	Add Caption Line
o	Revert Captions
o	Save
•	Keyboard Shortcuts
•	Additional Resources
How to Find your Caption Editor
1.	Log in to Rutgers Canvas or Rutgers Mediaspace. 
2.	Access My Media by one of these methods: 
o	Mediaspace: In Rutgers Mediaspace, click on your account name, then click My Media in the user menu. You may also access My Media in the top navigation menu.
o	Canvas: In Canvas, click Account, then click My Kaltura Media. You may also access My Kaltura Media in your Canvas global navigation. 
3.	 Access the captions editor by doing the following: 
o	Click the three dots to the right of the video and select Edit.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click the Captions tab for the entry. Then click Edit Captions.
5.	Video owners and editors can use the Actions next to each caption to access advanced options. Actions include setting the caption as default if more than one exists (1), to edit a particular caption (2), to delete a caption (3), to download the caption file (4), and to hide the captions so they do not display on the player (5). The latter option is recommended so that instructors can hide the low-accuracy caption file until it has been completely reviewed and edited. The caption editor is launched in the same browser window. 

             Error! Filename not specified.
How to Edit Your Captions
The editor comprises two parts. The left pane contains the caption selector (1), the search (2) and replace (3) tools, the add speaker name tool (4), and the transcript with editor and timestamps (5). The right pane contains the video (6) and player controls (7). Once captions are edited, the Save (8) button will be active.
Error! Filename not specified.
Editor Options
•	Change Caption File
•	Edit the Timestamp of Each Line
•	Search
•	Search and Replace Text
•	Add Speaker ID
•	Auto Scroll Text
•	Fast Forward Seek Backward
•	Add a Caption Line
•	Revert Changes
•	Save
Change Caption File
If there is more than one caption file for the entry, select the caption file to be edited from the Captions drop-down menu (1 above).
Edit the Timestamp of Each Line
Click on the timestamp in the editor and modify the time. If there is overlapping time, the system highlights it.
Error! Filename not specified.
Search
Use the caption editor to search for terms. Enter a search term and press Enter on your keyboard. The results are highlighted in each caption line.
Error! Filename not specified.
Search and Replace Text
To replace words, select Replace (1), then enter the term you want to replace in Find Match (2). Under Replace with (3), enter the term to replace the original word. Click Replace (4).
Error! Filename not specified.
Add Speaker ID
Select rows by checking the box next to the caption (1). Click Add Speaker (2) and add the speaker’s name (3) to the text box. Click Add speaker (4).
Error! Filename not specified.
The speaker's name will now appear at the beginning of the text.
Error! Filename not specified.
Auto-Scroll Text
Checking the box below the player for Autoscroll will automatically scroll the text while playing the media.
When playing the media, the current line is highlighted in the captions file. When clicking on a caption line, the player jumps to the correct frame for the selected text.
Fast Forward Seek Backward
Above the video player, you may use the toggle to enable Autoscroll (1). With this enabled, as the media plays, the current line is highlighted in the captions editor, and the video jumps to the appropriate position when a different caption line is selected. Below the video player, click the rewind (2) or fast forward (3) icons at the bottom of the screen to move backward or forward 5 seconds. The center button ( 4) will toggle between Play and Pause if the video is playing.
Error! Filename not specified.
Add Caption Line
When a user mouses over the caption line, editing icons are displayed:
•	Plus Sign – Add a caption line
•	Trash icon – Remove the caption line
How to add a caption line
1.	Use your mouse to hover over a caption line preceding where you want to add a line.
2.	Click Add Caption to add a new caption line.
3.	Click the line you want to modify. You can modify the original line or the copy.
4.	Change the caption text. When you modify text, a countdown indicates the number of characters you have left.
5.	Be certain to modify the start and end times so that there is no overlap.
Error! Filename not specified.
Revert Captions
The Revert option reverts to the last saved changes. This button is enabled once a change has been made to the caption file.
Save
The Save button saves the modified caption file. This button is enabled once a change has been made to the caption file.
Keyboard Shortcuts
•	Player seeks 5S backward = Ctrl ? or Option ?
•	Player seek 2S backwards = ?
•	Player seeks to 0 = Home and in Mac Command ?
•	Player pause-play toggle = spacebar
•	Player seek 5S forward = Ctrl ?
•	Player seek 2S forward = ?
When editing is complete, click the Back button in the upper right to return to your video.
Additional Resources
Kaltura Learning: How to Edit Captions for a Video (Video)
" KB0017271 Video & Multimedia Kaltura - How to make a Kaltura video available by link only "
This guide covers how to make a Kaltura video available to users via a link. In Kaltura, a publish status of Unlisted means the video can be shared and viewed by those with the link. This includes people who have no affiliation with Rutgers University. This can only be done through Kaltura MediaSpace.
How to Unlist a Kaltura Video
1.	Log in to Kaltura MediaSpace and navigate to a video.
2.	Click the three dots.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Hover over Publish status with your cursor to show more options.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Select Unlisted to unlist your video.

Error! Filename not specified.
How to share the link of an Unlisted Kaltura Video
1.	Navigate to your video entry.
2.	To the right of the video, select Share.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	In the Share box, select how you would like to share the video. To share the URL link, select Copy to copy the URL to your clipboard.
Error! Filename not specified.
Additional Resources
Kaltura – MediaSpace Overview
" KB0018912 Video & Multimedia Kaltura - How To Prevent Video Playback for Embedded Livestream on a Webpage "
With Kaltura, you can obtain an embed code for your video, provided the correct settings are selected. This guide provides instructions for locating the video embed code and editing it to prevent video playback for embedded livestreams on a webpage.
Table of Contents
•	Accessing Your Kaltura MediaSpace™ (KMS) Account 
o	How to Log in
•	Finding Embed Code
•	Edit Embed Code
Accessing Your Kaltura MediaSpace™ (KMS) Account
You will need the following information to successfully log in to your Rutgers MediaSpace account:
•	Your Rutgers NetID
•	Your password for your NetID 
How to Log in
1.	Go to the Rutgers MediaSpace.
2.	Click on the profile icon in the upper right.
3.	In the drop-down menu, click Login.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click Rutgers NetID.
5.	Rutgers Mediaspace uses single sign-on, so if you have an active CAS session, you may not need to enter your Rutgers NetID and password. If not, you’ll be taken to the login page. Enter your credentials and then click Login.
Finding Embed Code
1.	Click My Media.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Scroll (A) to find the video or use the Search Bar (B) to search for your video and click on the video to be brought to the media page.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Under the Video, click Share, then choose the icon </> for the video embed code.

Error! Filename not specified.
Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Copy the embed code and paste it into a text editor on your webpage. 

Error! Filename not specified.
Edit Embed Code
1.	Find the player ID "56637582" by reviewing the embed code or using your browser's find option (CTRL F). 

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Change the player ID for the corresponding player from 56637582 to 57080292 to prevent video-on-demand playback of past live-streamed recordings.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Use the updated embed code as needed.
" KB0018763 Video & Multimedia Kaltura - How to View Videos Using the Media Player in Canvas "
This document describes how to use the controls on the Kaltura video player to personalize the playback experience. Kaltura in Rutgers Canvas and MediaSpace uses the Kaltura version 7 (v7) media player. Viewers may see the Kaltura media player on Rutgers websites and in Rutgers Canvas course sites. 
Table of Contents
•	Kaltura V7 Media Player Features
•	Sample Content
•	Kaltura Media Player Controls
•	Keyboard Shortcuts and Player Accessibility
•	Note for Content owners
Kaltura V7 Media Player Features
•	Faster load times – Course content with multiple videos on a page loads faster.
•	Enhanced security and performance.
•	Multiple means of representation – With advice from Rutgers instructional designers and accessibility experts, the new V7 player displays a transcript by default in Rutgers Canvas. The searchable transcript may be opened in a pop-up window or closed if unnecessary.
•	Responsive design and modern look – The player works seamlessly across different screen sizes and supports multiple-stream recordings (main video and picture-in-picture), improving performance on mobile devices.
•	Extended audio descriptions – The V7 player supports extended audio description (EAD) if requested for the video.
•	A customizable caption display allows users to choose font size and color based on their needs and preferences.
Sample Content
The sample video below includes many features that may be available when viewing a video or playlist in Rutgers Canvas. The first video in the playlist consists of a secondary video stream, captions, chapters, audio descriptions, and a transcript. The second video contains only one video stream, audio, and captions; it is representative of videos in Canvas. The remaining five videos in the playlist are placeholders with no content. 
  
Kaltura Media Player Controls
The Kaltura media player is divided into seven general areas, and the features are described below. The controls and options for each area are listed below. The content owner, not the media viewer, determines the options displayed on media embedded in Canvas. 
Error! Filename not specified.
 
Kaltura Media Player Controls
Player Area	Icon	Control Option	Location	Description
Main Video	--	--	A	The primary video stream is displayed in the Main Video area. The six general areas of the media player overlay the Main Video or appear to the right or bottom of it. 
Picture-in-Picture	--	--	B	The Picture-in-Picture (PIP) is available when a video is recorded with two streams and appears as an inset window, generally in the lower-right corner of the main video. 
 	Error! Filename not specified.
Hide/Show	B	Viewers can reduce the size of the PIP window. When the PIP is reduced, the icon changes to Show.
 	Error! Filename not specified.
Side-by-Side Screens	B	The Main Video and PIP are displayed side-by-side as equal-sized windows. 
 	Error! Filename not specified.
Switch to secondary screen	B	The Main Video and PIP streams are switched so the PIP plays in the Main Video area. 
Top Control Bar 	 	 	C	The Top Control Bar is located in the upper-right corner of the Main Video to allow viewers to access additional information about the video. 
 	Error! Filename not specified.
Navigation	C	Displayed as a magnifying glass, Navigation indicates that the video has been enriched with metadata to help you navigate and discover the content beyond the video itself. Additional metadata may include chapter points or images of the main video. When a viewer clicks the Navigation icon, the navigation panel opens in the Side Panel. The Navigation panel includes a search bar for captions, chapter titles, and other metadata in the video timeline. 
 	Error! Filename not specified.
Info	C	The Info icon provides information about the video. For example, the video’s name, description, and creation date are listed as an overlay on the main video.
 	Error! Filename not specified.
Transcript Toggle	C	The Transcript Toggle opens and closes the transcript widget below the main video.
 	Error! Filename not specified.
Playlist	C	If available, the Playlist icon toggles open the playlist in the Side Panel to display all videos in the playlist. 
 	Error! Filename not specified.
Download	C	If available, the down arrow icon lets viewers download a copy of the video and its attachments. A pop-up window opens, displaying the options. Viewers may need to scroll through the list of available download files. 
 	Error! Filename not specified.
Share	C	If available, the Share button lets you share content via different options, such as URL, email, embed code, and social media.
 	Error! Filename not specified.
Picture-in-Picture Toggle	C	The Picture-in-Picture toggle will float the Main Video, allowing viewers to scroll the webpage with the video in view, or return the video to play in the Main Video panel. The float is draggable. 
 	Error! Filename not specified.
More	C	The More menu, represented by a three-dot icon, reveals a drop-down of additional features and options available to the viewer when the screen size limits the displayed options.
Progress Bar	 	 	D	Also called the video timeline, the Progress Bar lets you dynamically seek any time position within the currently playing video. The Progress Bar overlays the Main Video. When hovering over the Progress Bar, the thumbnail of the relevant point in the video and the timestamp (web only) are displayed. Click on the scrubber to get to the relevant point in the video. Chapter points are indicated on the progress bar, if applicable.
Bottom Control Bar	 	 	E	The Bottom Control Bar overlays the Main Video and appears below the Progress Bar. This area includes features related to playback and accessibility. 
 	Error! Filename not specified.Error! Filename not specified.Error! Filename not specified.
Play/Pause/Replay	E	The Play/Pause/Replay button pauses or plays the recording. You can also click on the video to pause or play the recording. When the recording is over, the Replay button will appear.
 	Error! Filename not specified.
Seek Backward	E	 The Seek Backward button rewinds the video for 10 seconds and replays it. 
 	Error! Filename not specified.
Seek Forward	E	The Seek Forward button advances the video by 10 seconds and then replays it. 
 	Error! Filename not specified.
Time Indicator	E	The time indicator displays the elapsed time and the video's duration. 
 	Error! Filename not specified.
Volume Control	E	The Volume Control lets you adjust the player's volume with mute/unmute buttons and a volume slider.
 	Error! Filename not specified.
Closed Caption	E	The closed caption icon toggles caption on or off. If multiple language tracks are available, the language control icon (globe icon) allows you to select the audio track and/or captions' languages, as well as advanced captions settings.
 	Error! Filename not specified.
Audio Description	E	If available, the AD icon toggles on audio descriptions or extended audio descriptions. 
 	Error! Filename not specified.
Settings	E	The Settings control allows you to select the playback quality, speed, and advanced caption settings.
 	Error! Filename not specified.
Fullscreen	E	The Fullscreen control lets you watch videos that fill your entire screen.  
Transcript	 	 	F	The Transcript widget automatically opens upon video play, displays the captions underneath the player with follow-along highlighting, and allows searching and jumping to specific times when a word is spoken.
 	Error! Filename not specified.
More	F	The More menu, represented by three dots, provides options related to the transcript.
 	Error! Filename not specified.
Popout Transcript	F	The Popout Transcript opens the transcript in a pop-up browser window that can be moved to a preferred position. 
 	Error! Filename not specified.
Download Transcript	F	If available, viewers may download the transcript as a text file. This option is available in the More transcript menu. Depending on screen size, viewers may need to scroll down. 
 	Error! Filename not specified.
Print Transcript	F	If available, viewers may print the transcript. This option is available in the More transcript menu. Depending on screen size, viewers may need to scroll down. 
Side Panel	 	 	G	The Side Panel displays more information when the Navigation and Playlist toggles are enabled. 
Keyboard Shortcuts and Player Accessibility
The Kaltura player is accessible by screen readers and meets the general accessibility requirements. The design includes requirements for color contrast, field focus, and fonts. Viewers can also customize the appearance of the captions. Viewers can control the player options with a standard keyboard (arrows, tab, space, enter, escape). 
Kaltura Shortcuts
Feature	Action	Keyboard
Playback	Play/Pause/Replay	space-bar
 	Volume Controls	    up/down arrows
 	Mute/Unmute	M
 	Go to Full-Screen	F
 	Exit Full-Screen	ESC
 	Seek (Jump 5 sec)	side arrows
 	Jump to Video Start	home
 	Jump to the Video End	end
Speed Selector	Increase/Decrease/Back to the Original (0)	Shift and < > or :
360 Video	Navigate Up, Down, Sideways	w / a / s / d
Captions	Show/Hide	c
Note for Content Owners
As part of this upgrade on May 13, 2025, existing embed codes designating the V2 player automatically load the new V7 player. This includes embedded codes manually copied and pasted from Rutgers MediaSpace (Kaltura) into your web pages and Canvas course content, as well as embedded media using the integration in Rutgers Canvas. To improve performance and reduce the risk that legacy embed codes will stop working, it is recommended that course instructors and website content creators update their existing embeds over the next 6 months.
•	Re-embed your media on your websites: Embed codes obtained from Rutgers MediaSpace are automatically updated. Visit your media entry page to copy the new embed code that uses the V7 Player. You will need to edit the page on your website and update it with the new code.
•	Re-embed your manually embedded media in Canvas: Media and playlists that were manually embedded in Canvas by using the HTML view in the Rich Context Editor in Canvas or embedded as media from an external source in the Rich Content Editor in Canvas will need to be re-embedded or embedded through Kaltura’s browse-search-embed option in the Rich Context Editor in Canvas.
" KB0019396 Video & Multimedia Kaltura Express Guide "
Kaltura offers many applications that let you create, capture, edit, and publish videos from anywhere. With Kaltura Express Capture, users can create webcam and screen recordings in their browser for quick, easy recording. 
How To Use Express Capture
1.	Log in to your Rutgers MediaSpace account or go to the My Kaltura Media tool in your Canvas Account. 
2.	Click + Create and select Express Capture from the dropdown menu.
3.	You will be presented with a screen to select your recording options. Your browser may ask for permission for Kaltura to have access to your webcam and microphone.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	After granting permission, review the recording options, which can be enabled or disabled. The camera icon (A) allows access to your webcam, the microphone icon (B) allows access to your computer’s microphone, and the desktop icon (C) allows access to record your screen. If screen recording is enabled, you will be prompted to share a specific window, tab, or your entire screen. 

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	When your recording settings are selected, to start recording, click the red round button (D). When you finish recording, click the red circle with a white square to stop. 
6.	Play and review your recording. Underneath the video, select one of the three options: Record Again, Download a Copy, or Use This. Selecting this last option will upload your recording to Kaltura. 
7.	You can add any details, such as a name change or description, upon upload.
Additional Resources
•	Rutgers IT Help: Kaltura Capture Guide
•	Kaltura Knowledgebase: Create a recording with Express Capture
•	Kaltura Knowledgebase: What to do if you accidentally block your camera or microphone from using Express Capture
" KB0016301 Video & Multimedia Kaltura – How to re-upload media recorded with Kaltura Capture "
This page describes how users can re-upload media that was created with Kaltura Capture. Users may use this feature to publish an existing recording across multiple Kaltura instances or to re-upload an entry that may have failed to process correctly.
This feature is available for Kaltura Capture versions 4.2.78 and higher
Table of Contents
•	How to re-upload media from Kaltura Capture
•	How to update Kaltura Capture
•	Replacing a video already embedded in a course or webpage
How to re-upload media from Kaltura Capture
1.	Open Kaltura Capture.
2.	Click Manage.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	In the Library, scroll to find the desired recording.
4.	Click Re-Upload.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Navigate to My Media to verify that an additional copy (A) of the entry has been uploaded and your original upload is still available (B). 
o	In Canvas, you will find the additional copy under My Kaltura Media.
o	In MediaSpace, click My Media in the dropdown menu.

Error! Filename not specified.
How to update Kaltura Capture
To automatically update Kaltura Capture, launch the application. The application must remain open and idle for 15 minutes. A notification will appear that Kaltura Capture has been updated.
To verify the version number:
1.	Click Manage.
2.	Click the information icon.

Error! Filename not specified.
Replacing a video already embedded in a course or webpage
Important to note: the re-upload feature creates a new media entry. It will not replace an existing entry. If you have embedded your media on your course site or on a webpage and would like to use a recently re-uploaded entry, you will need to re-embed or re-link it to the new entry.
" KB0016288 Video & Multimedia Kaltura – How to Request Professional Captions "
Automated captions, powered by WhisperAI, are enabled in Rutgers MediaSpace, powered by Kaltura. When a video is uploaded to MediaSpace via the standalone website or through Rutgers Canvas, captions are generated using automatic speech recognition. This service provides 70-95% accuracy. Video owners will need to review and edit their captions to increase accuracy to meet accessibility standards.
 
If you are an instructor in a Canvas course or if you share videos from Rutgers MediaSpace, you may wish to notify your students to report any errors to you. Include a note in your syllabus that all captions are machine-generated and to contact the instructor regarding inaccuracies.
Ideally, requests for professional captions for video entries should be made for video entries that:
•	Require non-English captions.
•	Require high-fidelity captions.
•	They were uploaded during a system event, and automated captions were not requested.
How to Request Professional Captions
1.	Log in to Rutgers Canvas or Rutgers Mediaspace. 
2.	Access My Media by one of these methods: 
o	Mediaspace: In Rutgers Mediaspace, click the profile icon in the upper-right corner, then click My Media in the user menu. You may also access My Media in the top navigation menu.
o	Canvas: In Canvas, click on Account, then click on My Kaltura Media. You may also access My Kaltura Media in your Canvas global navigation.
3.	Click the video you want professional captions for.

     Error! Filename not specified.
 
4.	From within the video, click the three dots to the right.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Select Reach captions & enrich from the dropdown.
6.	Select + Order

     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Use the drop-down menus to select the options for Feature (A), Service Type (B), Source media language (C), and Turnaround Time (D). Enter special instructions and notes (E) to include jargon and technical terminology. Click Submit (F).
Error! Filename not specified.

o	Note: The Unit can be adjusted to Rutgers University Accessibility & Disability Resources if the instructor is working with RADR and they have been advised to select this option; all other requests should be set to the Unit Rutgers University.

Error! Filename not specified.
Additional Resources
Kaltura - How to Edit Captions
" KB0016336 Video & Multimedia Kaltura – MediaSpace Overview "
With the MediaSpace Video Portal, users can securely create, upload, share, search, browse, and watch live and on-demand videos, presentations, webcasts, and other rich media content, anytime, anywhere. MediaSpace provides a cross-device user experience, unmatched user engagement capabilities, and powerful control and governance tools.
This service is offered to the Rutgers community at no cost.
Table of Contents
•	How to Access your Kaltura MediaSpace™ (KMS) Account
•	How to Upload Media
•	File Types That Are Supported 
o	Video
o	Audio
o	Image
•	Additional Resources
How to Access your Kaltura MediaSpace™ (KMS) Account
You will need the following information to successfully log in to your Rutgers MediaSpace account:
•	Your Rutgers NetID
•	Your password for your NetID 
To Log In:
1.	Go to the Rutgers MediaSpace.
2.	Click on the profile icon in the upper right.
3.	In the drop-down menu, click Login.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click Rutgers NetID.
5.	Rutgers Mediaspace uses single sign-on, so if you are already logged in elsewhere, you will be taken straight to the ‘My Media’ tab. If not, you’ll be taken to the login page. Otherwise, enter your credentials and click Login.
How to Upload Media
1.	Click +Create (A) and select Upload (B) from the dropdown menu.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	After the Upload Media page is displayed, click Select Files. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	In the Select file to upload window, select a media file, then click Open. 

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	As the file uploads, you may begin adding details by clicking Edit on the left side. The details include: 
o	Name: This is the only required field. It will be prominently displayed as a banner in the media.
o	Description: This is displayed below your media and allows you to write additional supplementary information.
o	Tags: These are used when searching your media within MediaSpace to help you organize your content.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	When you are finished editing the details, click Save. You may continue uploading more files by repeating steps 1–3 above.
6.	Please note that at this point, you may not be able to view your media, and you may see the message: "This media is still being converted." This is completely normal. Your media will continue to process even if you navigate away from MediaSpace.
File Types That Are Supported
Video
•	3GPP (.3gp)
•	Advanced Systems Format (.asf)
•	Audio Video Interleave (.avi)
•	Flash Video (.f4v, .flv)
•	Material eXchange Format (.mxf)
•	Matroska Multimedia Container (.mkv)
•	MPEG Transport Stream (.ts)
•	MPEG-1 Video (.m1v, .mpg, .mpeg)
•	MPEG-2 Video (.m2v)
•	MPEG-4 Video (.m4v)
•	Multimedia Viewer Book (.mvb)
•	Ogg (.ogg, .ogv)
•	QuickTime (.mov, .qt)
•	RealMedia (.rm)
•	RealVideo (.rv)
•	Video Object (.vob)
•	WebM (.webm)
•	Windows Media (.wm, .wmv)
Audio
•	3GPP (.3gp)
•	Adaptive Multi-Rate (.amr)
•	Advance Audio Coding (.aac, .m4a, .mp4)
•	Advanced Systems Format (.asf)
•	Audio Interchange File Format (.aif, .aiff)
•	Audio Video Interleave (.avi)
•	Flash Video (.f4v, .flv)
•	MPEG-1 or MPEG-2 Audio Layer III (.mp3)
•	Ogg (.ogg, .oga)
•	QuickTime (.mov, .qt)
•	RealAudio (.ra)
•	RealMedia (.rm)
•	Waveform Audio File Format (.wav, .wave)
•	WebM (.webm)
•	Windows Media (.wm, .wma)
Image
•	Bitmap Image (.bmp)
•	Graphics Interchange Format (.gif)
•	JPEG (.jpe, .jpeg, .jpg)
•	Portable Network Graphics (.png)
•	Tagged Image File Format (.tif, .tiff)
The following types of documents may be uploaded to MediaSpace for synchronization with a video file using the “Video Presentation” function.
•	Document
•	Excel (.xls, .xlsx)
•	Portable Document Format (.pdf)
•	PowerPoint (.ppt, .pptx)
•	Word (.doc, .docx)
Additional Resources
•	How to Request Captions
•	How to Edit Captions 
" KB0018793 Video & Multimedia Kaltura – Sharing Videos Outside of Canvas "
You can share your Kaltura videos with anyone outside of Canvas by configuring the appropriate privacy settings. This guide will walk you through the steps.
Accessing Your Kaltura MediaSpace™ (KMS) Account
You will need the following information to successfully log in to your Rutgers MediaSpace account:
•	Your Rutgers NetID
•	Your password for your NetID 
To Log In:
1.	Go to the Rutgers MediaSpace.
2.	Click on the profile icon in the upper right.
3.	In the drop-down menu, click Login.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click Rutgers NetID.
5.	Rutgers Mediaspace uses Rutgers single sign-on, so if you are already logged in somewhere else, the My Media page will load directly. If not, you’ll be taken to the login page. Otherwise, enter your credentials and click Login.
Sharing Your Video
1.	Click My Media.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Scroll (A) to find the video or use the search bar (B) to search for your video and click on the video (C) to be brought to the media page.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click the three dots under the video, select Publish Status, and choose Unlisted from the dropdown menu.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Once set to Unlisted, click Share to choose from the available sharing options. 

    Error! Filename not specified.


Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0016627 Video & Multimedia VoiceThread - Trouble Accessing your VoiceThread Account "
When you click on a VoiceThread link, you see a page titled “VoiceThread Account Verification”
This means you already had a VoiceThread account under your email address, and the system is now trying to connect that existing account with your profile. You’ll only need to complete this step once. To proceed through this page:
1.	Click on Verify By Email.
2.	Check your email for the message from VoiceThread.
3.	Click on the verification link in that email.
Is it asking you to sign in?
You may be asked to sign in to VoiceThread. This happens because the Voicethread session expires before your Canvas session expires.  Refresh your page to refresh your Voicethread session.  You do not need to create or enter a password unless you plan to access Voicethread through the stand-alone website or the mobile app.
Having Issues with Audio or Video
Visit the VoiceThread website to resolve any VoiceThread recording issues you may have.
Additional resources
•	Commenting Voicethread
•	Viewing Voicethread
•	Creating Voicethread
•	Editing Voicethread
•	Sharing Voicethread
•	Voicethread Settings
•	Voicethread Activity Feed
•	Voicethread Notifications
•	VoiceThread Accessibility
Voicethread also offers workshops for additional learning opportunities.
" KB0016376 Video & Multimedia VoiceThread - Video Tutorials "
Below are a series of relevant YouTube videos related to VoiceThread, or you may view the VoiceThread's YouTube Channel.
Instructor Resources
•	Setting up a VoiceThread Watch Assignment
•	Setting up a VoiceThread Create Assignment
•	Setting up a VoiceThread Comment Assignment
•	New Assignments Grading
•	Creating a VoiceThread
•	Comment Moderation feature
•	Using VoiceThread's Media Sources: Khan Academy, NYPL, Flickr
Student Resources
•	Submitting a Watch a VoiceThread Assignment
•	Submitting a Submit a Comment VoiceThread Assignment
•	Submitting a Create a VoiceThread Assignment
" KB0016372 Video & Multimedia VoiceThread – Audio/video recording issues "
VoiceThread allows you to create multimedia discussions and projects for your course that students can interact with. 
However, when issues arise, it is best for you to try a series of troubleshooting steps. VoiceThread has additional troubleshooting articles.
Check your web browser’s settings
•	Make sure that you are using either Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, or Safari.
•	Make sure your web browser is fully up to date.
•	Check the browser’s microphone and webcam settings to ensure the correct input is selected and that VoiceThread is not blocked.
•	Clear your browser’s cache.
•	Make sure your browser allows third-party cookies.
•	If using Safari, you may need to adjust privacy settings to allow external tools to work correctly.
Restart your computer
A simple computer restart can help with some issues, especially if it has been a while since your last restart or if you have many other applications running.
Settings for your computer
Make sure that the correct microphone and/or webcam is selected in your computer’s sound input settings. If you can successfully record audio or video in other applications, you can skip this step.
Check your network settings
VoiceThread requires certain URLs and ports to be open on your network or allowed in your browser. If one is blocked, this may prevent successful recording. Click here if you are working on a local area network.
Try another internet connection and computer
Trying another location and/or computer will at least narrow down where the issue is occurring. It will also allow you to complete your VoiceThread work in the short term while you continue troubleshooting your own computer or network.
" KB0016374 Video & Multimedia VoiceThread – Sharing Issues "
If you can see your VoiceThread but others cannot, you may need to adjust your share settings to include the entire class.
All sharing actions can be performed in the sharing area for a VoiceThread. You can access the sharing area from several different places. 
From the VoiceThread Home page
1.	Click the three dots next to the VoiceThread
2.	Click on the Share button. If multiple VoiceThreads are selected, hover your mouse over one of the VoiceThreads and click Share to share several at once. 
3.	Make sure your course section is selected.

Error! Filename not specified.
From the Create or Edit page
1.	Navigate to the Create page for a VoiceThread you own or can edit.
2.	Click on the Share button near the top of the page.
3.	Make sure your course section is selected.

Error! Filename not specified.
From an open VoiceThread
1.	Click on the menu in the top-left corner of the VoiceThread.
2.	Select Share.
3.	Make sure your course section is selected.

Error! Filename not specified.
Additional resources
•	Commenting Voicethread
•	Viewing Voicethread
•	Creating Voicethread
•	Editing Voicethread
•	Sharing Voicethread
•	Voicethread Settings
•	Voicethread Activity Feed
•	Voicethread Notifications
•	VoiceThread Accessibility
" KB0019207 Video Conference System Cisco One Button to Push (OBTP) "
Table of Contents
•	What is One Button to Push?
•	How it Works
•	How to enable OBTP
•	How to Schedule a Room 
o	Microsoft Teams 
o	Zoom
o	Webex
•	Best Practices 
o	Avoid Meeting Overlap
o	Room Conflicts
•	Known Issues 
o	Search Limits 
What is One Button to Push?
One Button to Push (OBTP) is a feature on the Cisco conference room systems that allows you to join a scheduled meeting with a single tap. Instead of dialing a meeting ID or passcode, a green "Join" button will appear on the room’s Touch Controller before your meeting begins.
How it works
When you invite a conference room to your calendar event, the Cisco system reads the meeting link (Teams, Zoom, or Webex) from the invitation. It then automatically configures the "Join" button to dial into that specific meeting at the scheduled time.
How to enable OBTP
Before you can use OBTP for the first time, you must contact your Departmental IT. They will need to create a Resource account for you in Rutgers Connect and enable the required platform (Teams/Webex/Zoom) for that account. They must then contact EITC and provide them with the following: 
•	UPN for the Resource account.
•	Name of the Teleconferencing System, building number, and the room it is located in.
•	Whether the Meeting title should appear on the room system. 
How to Schedule a Room
After your Departmental IT has confirmed OBTP has been set up, follow these steps to ensure the "Join" button appears correctly based on your preferred platform.
Your departmental IT will determine if the meeting title will appear on the Cisco controller. Please note that the meeting title may contain personal or sensitive information. 
Microsoft Teams 
1.	Create a new meeting in Outlook or Teams.
2.	Add the Conference Room Name (Resource Account) in the Required Attendees field.
3.	Ensure the Teams Meeting toggle is turned ON.
4.	Save the meeting.

Error! Filename not specified.
On the room system, the host's name, meeting name, and meeting time are displayed. You can join the meeting by pressing Join without needing to enter a passcode separately. 
Error! Filename not specified.
Zoom
1.	Create a new meeting in Outlook.
2.	Add the Conference Room Name (Resource Account) in the Required Attendees field.
3.	Important: Ensure the Teams Meeting toggle is turned OFF before adding the Zoom meeting. 
4.	Add a Zoom meeting.
5.	Save the meeting.

Error! Filename not specified.
On the room system, the host's name, meeting name, and meeting time are displayed. You can join the meeting by pressing Join without needing to enter a passcode separately. 
•	If the Zoom meeting has a Waiting Room and you are the host: 
o	Enter your Host Key on the controller. You can find your host key from Rutgers Zoom under Profile > Meeting > Host Key.
o	Alternatively, start the meeting from your laptop or phone, and the room system will be automatically admitted.
•	If the Zoom Meeting does not have a waiting room enabled, you will automatically join. 
Error! Filename not specified.
Webex
1.	Create a new meeting in Outlook.
2.	Add the Conference Room Name (Resource Account) in the Required Attendees field.
3.	Important: Ensure the Teams Meeting toggle is turned OFF before adding the Webex meeting. 
4.	Add your Webex meeting details via the Webex scheduler/Add-in.
5.	Save the meeting.

Error! Filename not specified.
On the room system, the host's name, meeting name, and meeting time are displayed. 
Error! Filename not specified.
Best Practices
Avoid Meeting Overlap
If your Outlook settings automatically add a Teams link to every meeting, but you also manually add a Zoom or Webex link, the Cisco system may experience issues with the multiple links.
•	The Hierarchy: If multiple links are present in a single calendar event, the Cisco system prioritizes them in the following order: Webex, Zoom, and then Teams.
•	Clean Invites: To ensure the room joins the correct platform, delete any unused meeting links or passcodes from the body of the calendar invite before sending.
Do not modify the meeting numbers and passcodes of meetings’ invites added via Teams, Webex, or Zoom add-ins. The Cisco devices read this information and pass it to the meeting. 
Room Conflicts
If you receive a "Declined" email from the room, it means the room is already booked. However, the Cisco controller may still show both meetings if they overlap. To avoid confusion for others, choose a different room or time if your request is declined.
Known Issues
Search Limits 
As of December 2025, when using the Cisco Webex webpage scheduling portal, note that MTR (Microsoft Teams Room) units are currently not visible in the "Invitees" search field. This is a known limitation currently being addressed by Cisco.
" KB0013104 Virtual Computer Labs FAQ Can I access Mac software on the Virtual Computer Labs?
No. The virtual computer labs do not provide access to macOS applications. The Virtual Computer Labs use a Windows operating system and therefore will only have Windows applications/software available.
KB0013564 Virtual Computer Labs FAQ Can I access my local files and devices from the Virtual Labs? "
Access to local files and printers is currently disabled. To access files off Virtual Labs, save the files in OneDrive and then access the files from OneDrive on your local device, or vice versa. 
" KB0013106 Virtual Computer Labs FAQ Can I use the Virtual Computer Labs for video conferencing? "
No. Multimedia performance is poor over the remote connection, and you cannot access local peripherals like your microphone and camera.
The OIT in-person computer labs offer desktop computers with cameras for video conferencing. You can find a list of locations and hours for each campus in the following links:
•	New Brunswick Computer Lab Locations
•	Newark Technology Resource Center Locations
•	Camden Computer Lab Locations
" KB0013523 Virtual Computer Labs FAQ Can I use the Virtual Labs for administrative purposes? "
No, you may not use the Virtual labs for administrative purposes as many of the applications are licensed for academic use only. If you are interested in the setup of Virtual Labs, please contact feedback@computerlabs.rutgers.edu. 
" KB0013112 Virtual Computer Labs FAQ Can I use Virtual Labs to provide remote access for my department? "
The Virtual Labs are intended as an alternative to the in-person computer labs, and are not a replacement for departmental devices. If you wish to have your own departmental Azure Virtual Desktop environment, complete the EDM Technical Support form and select Virtual Lab as the Support Type.
" KB0013109 Virtual Computer Labs FAQ Can the Virtual Labs be used for HIPAA information? "
Yes, the Virtual Labs are HIPAA compliant.
" KB0013527 Virtual Computer Labs FAQ Do I need to log in every time I use an Office application in the Virtual Labs?
No. Your Office credentials and settings will be saved in your cloud profile. You might be prompted to renew your office activation depending on the age of your profile and the amount of time that has passed since your last login.
KB0013111 Virtual Computer Labs FAQ Do I need to use a virtual private network (VPN) to connect to the Virtual Labs?
No. A VPN is not required to connect to the Virtual Computer Labs.
KB0013565 Virtual Computer Labs FAQ How do I print from the Virtual Labs? "
Currently, you can access the Virtual lab print queue to print on campus. You can then release your print job from any print station. If you wish to print locally, you can save the file as a PDF and print it out.
How to print locally from the Virtual Labs 
1.	Open a file in a Windows application.
2.	Select File > Print.
3.	Choose Remote Desktop Virtual Printer from the Select Printer options.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	You will see a message in the upper right-hand corner stating the print job has started.

 Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Once the file is downloaded, it will pop up in the bottom left-hand corner of your browser. 
" KB0013526 Virtual Computer Labs FAQ How do I receive support for the Virtual Computer Labs? "
If you need assistance, please contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0013108 Virtual Computer Labs FAQ How do I request that additional software be added to what's available in the Virtual Labs? "
You can view the full list of applications available on the Virtual Computer Labs.
Contact feedback@computerlabs.rutgers.edu to request additional software beyond what is currently available.
You cannot install software yourself, as you do not have the required permissions to install software on the Virtual Labs.
" KB0013105 Virtual Computer Labs FAQ How do the OIT Virtual Computer Labs work? "
Our Virtual Labs utilize Azure Virtual Desktop (AVD). It offers several key benefits:
•	Capacity for unlimited simultaneous usage
•	Local storage options
•	Access to some programs that cannot be licensed for physical labs
•	Access to the Rutgers Mobility Printer Queues
Learn more about how to access the Virtual labs. 
" KB0013528 Virtual Computer Labs FAQ What settings are saved in my profile using the Virtual Labs? "
Currently, your Office and OneDrive login is stored in-between sessions. OneDrive is set to sync the Documents and Desktop folder automatically to allow better file access. For more information about how to upload and store your files and photos in OneDrive, please visit the OneDrive Support site. Your saved profile will be deleted if the Virtual Labs aren't accessed for 3 months.
" KB0013563 Virtual Computer Labs FAQ Where should I store my files on the Virtual Labs? "
To save files, you will need to upload them to a cloud storage solution, as remote file saving is disabled.
You should store your files on OneDrive. This can be accessed from the Windows File Explorer in the virtual labs or from OneDrive. ?
Alternatively, you can store your files in Box or your Google Drive.
" KB0013110 Virtual Computer Labs FAQ "Why did I receive a ""Connection Error"" when logging into Virtual Labs?"
The host pool may be out of available connections. Please wait a few minutes and try again.
KB0012570 Virus/Malware Support Installation of Cisco Secure Endpoint (formerly AMP) "
Review the overview of antivirus software for University-owned equipment and personally owned equipment before installing antivirus software.
Cisco Secure Endpoint (formerly AMP) is for Faculty and Staff on University-owned equipment only. 
Note that for University-owned equipment, you should contact your department’s IT staff before installing or uninstalling antivirus software.
Windows Installation
1.	Download Cisco Secure Endpoint on the Software Portal.
2.	Double-click the downloaded file to begin installing it.
3.	If the User Account Control dialog box appears, confirm that the action it displays is what you want, and then click Continue.
4.	Click on Install.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	When the Installation has completed, click Next. 
6.	Check the Box to create a desktop shortcut if desired.
7.	Click Close.
8.	Secure Endpoint will launch and display the status as Connected.
Mac Installation
1.	Download Cisco Secure Endpoint on the Software Portal.
2.	Double-click the downloaded file to begin installing it.
3.	The package will determine if Cisco Secure Endpoint can be installed, click Continue.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Accept the EULA by clicking Continue > Agree.
5.	Click Install.
6.	You will be prompted to enter your computer credentials to allow the installation.

     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Upon completion, you may be notified "System Extension Blocked"; and you will need to enable the application in System Preferences.
1.	To enable the application if you received the notification, go to System Preferences > Security & Privacy.
2.	Toward the bottom of this window, you can click Allow to enable Cisco Secure Endpoint.

     Error! Filename not specified.

     Error! Filename not specified.
 
" KB0012571 Virus/Malware Support Installation of Personal Antivirus Software "
Review the overview of antivirus software for University-owned equipment and personally owned equipment before installing antivirus software.
Note that for University-owned equipment, you should reach out to your Department’s IT staff before installing or uninstalling antivirus software.
Windows Defender
Follow Microsoft's guide on using the built-in security features and Windows Defender. 
Avira (For Mac)
For personal equipment that is not owned by Rutgers.
1.	Download Avira using the link on the Software Portal page. 
2.	Double click the downloaded file to begin installing.
3.	If a Security Window opens click Open to allow the installer to progress.
 
Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click Accept and Install.
5.	Enter your account information to allow the installation.
6.	The Avira installer will download the remaining components for installation and continue to install.
7.	If you receive a message "System Extension Blocked" click on Open Security Preferences.

Error! Filename not specified.
8.	Click Allow to approve the Avira Kernel extension to run.

Error! Filename not specified.
9.	The installation is now complete and you can close this window.
" KB0019146 Voice VOIP Services Voice Solution Offerings "
Rutgers offers various platforms for your office phone, tailored to your specific needs. Currently, the softphone solutions (calls made without a physical desk phone) are Webex Calling or Teams Calling. In either scenario, this allows you to answer calls using your laptop or cell phone, depending on your setup. Each solution has different options and features. 
Please review the table below to determine which solution is best for you. 
?	Cisco + Webex App	MS Teams
[Basic Voice]
Calling?	?	?
Desk Phone [Multiple lines]?	Y?	-?
Soft Phone On Desktop [Multiple]?	Y?	-?
Soft phone on Mobile [One Line]	Y?	Y?
Phone Line Features?	?	?
Shared / Common lines?	Y?	-?
Multiple lines per account?	Y?	-?
Caller-ID showing main number?	Y?	-?
Voicemail?	?	?
Personal Line with Voicemail?	Y?	Y?
Group Voicemail?	Y?	-?
Voicemail to Email?	Y?	Y?
Voicemail Transcribed in App?	-?	Y?
Cost?	Line per user?	Line per user + MS Teams license?
 
 
" KB0017610 Web Portal Apps page in myRutgers Web Portal "
The Apps page contains a library of apps that Rutgers has available. Along the top are the App menu items. There are 3 icons in total. From left to right:
•	Modify Favorites: If you wish to reorder or remove your favorites, select this item and then move your favorites into the order you wish. Drag and drop to move them. Click on the heart icon to unfavorite an app. Click the Modify Favorites button again, now turned into a checkmark, to save changes. 
•	Search: Type into the search bar to narrow down what apps you are looking at based on what was typed.  
•	Logout: Clicking this will log you out of your current myRutgers session.
Underneath that you will find 3 tabs:
Error! Filename not specified.
•	Favorites are any apps that you have favorited.
•	For You are apps recommended to you based on your role and campus.
•	All Apps allows you browse the entire collection of Rutgers Apps regardless of campus or role. 
If you don’t have any Apps favorited, the my Apps page will default to the For You tab.
Favorites
Any apps that you have favorited will show up in this tab. To favorite an app, navigate to the All Apps or For you section and select the heart icon next to the name or in the lower right corner. Unfavorite an app by selecting it again. It will then be removed.
 
Error! Filename not specified.
 
You can reorder your favorites by clicking the up-down arrow icon on the top of the page. A move icon (three horizontal lines) will appear on the top right of each app tile which allows you to move the tile to the preferred position. Click and drag from the move icon to change the order. Click the red check mark in the top navigation bar or navigate away to a different tab or page to exit reorder mode. Your progress is saved after each app move.  
 
Error! Filename not specified.
 
For You
Here you will find apps recommended for you based on your role and campus. The images along the top relates to the categories recommended to you. Click the Learn More button over the image to dive into these categories. As you scroll down you will see more apps available to you grouped by category. You may add apps to your favorites by clicking the heart icon as you browse.
 
Error! Filename not specified.
 
All Apps tab
These are all apps available regardless of campus or role. They are grouped by category. Click into any of the categories via the image carousel on top or scroll down to view more. You can look through the categories using the pagination arrows or clicking on one of the page circles to view more apps. You can also click See All to expand the entire category. You may add apps to your favorites by clicking the heart icon as you browse.
 
Error! Filename not specified.
 
On all these pages, clicking on the app icon will launch the link associated with that app. You can also click the (i) info icon to learn more about that app, see pictures attached to it, as well as see related apps. Click the back button to get back to the apps page.
 
Error! Filename not specified.
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017618 Web Portal Dashboard Settings in myRutgers web portal "
In the myRutgers web portal you can Reset Tutorials or Restore Widgets.
•	Reset Tutorials will allow you to trigger all tutorials to be visible again in their respective widgets.  
•	Restore Widgets will set your dashboard back to the default configuration.
These options can be found by going to App Settings > Dashboard Settings and choosing the appropriate option. 
 
Error! Filename not specified.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017619 Web Portal Dashboard widgets overview in myRutgers "
Widgets will be available to you based on your role. The combination of widgets available to you will give you granular control over your information, course load, grades, finances and more.  
Table of Contents
•	My Profile
•	My Notifications
•	My Course Activity
•	My Course Schedule
•	My Grades
•	My Degree
•	Course Registration
•	My Financial Aid
•	My Money
•	My Email: Connect
•	My Email: ScarletMail
•	Student Services Center
•	Rutgers IT Help
•	RU Parking Service Center
•	Tech Guide
•	RU Dining
•	Library Quick Search
•	Career Services
•	Career Services Events
•	Job Opportunities
•	Jobs & Internships
•	Did You Know?
•	GradFund Advising
•	My Flexible Work
•	My Paycheck
•	My Benefits
•	My Teaching Schedule
•	My Expenses
•	Faculty/Staff Service Center
•	Mason Gross Dance
My Profile
Here you will find information such as your NetID, RUID, phone, and email. You may also make changes to your profile with the buttons at the bottom of the widget.
Error! Filename not specified.
My Notifications
Any campus alerts will be displayed here.
Error! Filename not specified.
My Course Activity
Important activities or announcements as well as your grades for assignments and tests will display here.
Error! Filename not specified.
My Course Schedule
Your schedule for the current or past semester. Contains key information such as location, time, instructor, credits and more. You may also report your absence as well as export your course schedule.
Error! Filename not specified.
My Grades
Your grades for the current or past semester. If a grade is hidden, click on the “eye” icon to view a single grade or click the “eye” icon in the upper right of the page to display all grades.
Error! Filename not specified.
My Degree
Displays your major’s information such as cumulative GPA, term GPA and credit count.
Error! Filename not specified.
Course Registration
Register for new courses based on the criteria you input. You can change campus, graduate level, and semester. You may also search for courses by name by typing into the search bar.
Error! Filename not specified.
My Financial Aid
Apply, get information, notifications, and view your awards. You can also change which year you are looking at.
Error! Filename not specified.
My Money
Displays your term bill balance and allows you to pay your bill.
Error! Filename not specified.
My Email: Connect
Displays a short preview of your most recent emails from your @rutgers.edu account.
Error! Filename not specified.
My Email: ScarletMail
Displays a short preview of your most recent emails from your @scarletmail.rutgers.edu account.
Error! Filename not specified.
Student Services Center
Displays events and case data related to OneStop.
Error! Filename not specified.
Rutgers IT Help
Displays alerts and notices about the Rutgers network. You can also find cases you've submitted here.
Error! Filename not specified.
RU Parking Service Center
Contains information related to parking on campus. You can also find cases you've submitted here.
Error! Filename not specified.
Tech Guide
Gives you help and directions for some technological problems that may arise. You may change role and campus to fine tune your search.
Error! Filename not specified.
RU Dining
Browse the dining halls of Rutgers campuses and see what they are serving.
Error! Filename not specified.
Library Quick Search
Search library resources across campuses.
Error! Filename not specified.
Career Services
Find guides on career growth, internships, and job opportunities.  
Error! Filename not specified.
Career Services Events
Displays events hosted by career services to explore opportunities. 
Error! Filename not specified.
Job Opportunities
Find a complete list of jobs posted within Rutgers community.
Error! Filename not specified.
Jobs & Internships
Find additional jobs and internship opportunities outside of Rutgers.
Error! Filename not specified.
Did You Know?
Displays various fun facts and trivia about Rutgers.
Error! Filename not specified.
GradFund Advising
Search for fellowships and grants, or schedule an advising appointment.
Error! Filename not specified.
My Flexible Work
Displays your expected work schedule and includes identifiers such as Remote or In-Person.
Error! Filename not specified.
My Paycheck
Displays your last paycheck as well as many other buttons to review your tax information and make adjustments to your direct deposits.
Error! Filename not specified.
My Benefits
Displays your available PTO.  
Error! Filename not specified.
My Teaching Schedule
Displays the classes you are teaching, the time they take place, the location, and more.
Error! Filename not specified.
My Expenses
Displays employee expenses as well as reports.
Error! Filename not specified.
Faculty/Staff Service Center
Announcements and case data from OneSource.
Error! Filename not specified.
Mason Gross Dance
Information about Mason Gross Dance school at Rutgers. Many links to see what they are doing or join yourself.
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017620 Web Portal Device Management in myRutgers mobile app "
Under App Settings, there is an item called Device Management. Here, you can manage which personal devices are linked to your NetID. This page will also display the devices that have Biometrics enabled, which will show underneath the device name.  
Error! Filename not specified.
 
To remove a device linked to your account, click the trash icon for that device. You will be given a prompt to delete the linked device. Press Okay to accept, or tap out of the prompt to cancel.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017621 Web Portal Device Management in myRutgers web portal "
Under App Settings, there is an item called Device Management. Here, you can manage which personal devices are linked to your NetID. This page will also display the devices that have Biometrics enabled, which will show underneath the device name.  
Error! Filename not specified.
To remove a device linked to your account, click the line item for that device. 
Error! Filename not specified.
You will be given a prompt to either Delete Device or Keep Device.  
There is also a refresh icon above the list. Click this to request the latest list of linked devices.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017623 Web Portal How to pay your bill in myRutgers "
If you need to pay your bill, you can do so from the dashboard.
1.	Locate the My Money widget.
2.	Select View/Pay Bill. On the following page, follow the steps to pay your bill.
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017624 Web Portal How to use the Course Schedule widget in myRutgers "
Course Schedule contains a lot of information about your course load for any given semester. Along the top, you can change your course term to a different semester. Information you can view about your class includes:
•	Class name
•	Course number
•	Instructor Name
•	Time and day
•	Course type
•	Location
•	Campus
•	Final exam date
Error! Filename not specified.
At the bottom of a course are 5 icons. They represent:
•	Course Materials
•	Bus stops near the building
•	GPS location through Rutgers Maps
•	Parking locations through Rutgers Maps
•	Classroom information
At the bottom of the widget, there are 3 items:
•	Self-report your absence from this class
•	Export your course schedule as an .ics file for you to download and add to the calendar on your computer.
•	Additional info views: gives you two different viewing options, either list or grid
" KB0017625 Web Portal How to use the map in myRutgers web portal "
The Maps page lets you view Rutgers' campuses, the available bus routes, and parking locations. 
Bus Stops and Routes
Stops will be displayed by pins on the map. If you click a pin, you select that stop and view its information. Any routes that contain that stop will be displayed at the bottom. The tiles will display when the next bus arrives.
Error! Filename not specified.
If you click on the tile, you will select that route. The map will change to show the route. An additional button is displayed in the top nav bar next to Select Campus. This is the View Route Times button.
Error! Filename not specified.
Clicking this button displays the route stops and the time the next bus arrives.
Error! Filename not specified.
When you select a route, bus, or stop, the pop-up displays information about that item. To exit and unselect that route, stop, or bus, use the back arrow on the left or the Close X button on the right.
Error! Filename not specified.
Parking Lots
Parking lots managed by Rutgers are outlined and highlighted in blue. If you click on a parking lot, you select it and view its information and an image of the lot.
Error! Filename not specified.
Toggle Filters
At the top left of the map, a series of buttons toggles various map features, showing and hiding the locations of bus stops and parking lots.
Error! Filename not specified.
•	Bus Filter: Toggles the bus stops to appear on the map
•	All: Toggles all the Rutgers parking lots to be highlighted on the map
•	myPermit: Toggles the parking lots your permit allows you to park in to be highlighted on the map
•	FacStaff: Toggles the Faculty/Staff parking lots to be highlighted on the map
•	Student: Toggles the student parking lots to be highlighted on the map
•	Additional Filters: Allows you to filter parking lots based on handicap spots, EV charging stations, covered parking spots, and gated parking lots
" KB0017628 Web Portal Leaving feedback in the myRutgers web portal "
If you would like to leave feedback about how to enhance the portal, report an issue, or give general feedback, you may do so in the portal. 
1.	Go to App Settings.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click on Feedback.
3.	Fill out the following fields: 
o	Type: You can select from Enhancement, Issue, or General.  
o	Title: Provide an accurate title for your feedback.
o	Description: To the best of your ability, describe the feedback you wish to give. The more information, the better.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Click Submit. 
" KB0017629 Web Portal Light and Dark mode in myRutgers web portal "
Under App Settings, there is an item called Dark Mode. Click on the toggle to change from light mode to dark mode. Click it again to change back.
 
Error! Filename not specified.
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017632 Web Portal Main menu in myRutgers web portal "
The left side menu is how you will navigate between pages of myRutgers. There are 7 navigation buttons in total.  
•	Open/close the menu
•	Dashboard
•	Apps
•	Community
•	News
•	Maps
•	Settings
 
Error! Filename not specified.
 
Open/close the menu
Clicking this will open the menu drawer and display the names of each icon as well as some additional features accessible via the down arrows. Click this icon again to close the drawer.  
Dashboard
This brings you to the Dashboard home page. It holds a variety of widgets related to you and services you may need at Rutgers. Clicking the down arrow on Dashboard gives you other options. 
Hide/show Sensitive Info
Toggling this on an off will hide or show information such as your grades, your phone number, finances and more.  
Add a Widget
You can add additional widgets to your dashboard through here. Options available to you will display in a popup in the center of the screen. You may also search by name for a widget as well as filter by category using the dropdown menu on the right side. Each widget has a down arrow to display more information and a plus sign to select the widget. You may select multiple widgets at a time. Add them by clicking Select a Widget button in the lower right.  
Reorder Widgets
Make your dashboard work for you. Drag and drop to reorder widgets as you see fit to put the ones you use most towards the top. You may also delete a widget from your dashboard. Some widgets cannot be removed. Click the Set Order in the lower right to save changes.  
Apps
This brings you to the available app library at Rutgers. On this page, there will be 3 tabs along the top.
•	Favorites: any apps that you have favorited.
•	For You: apps recommended to you based on your role and campus.
•	All Apps: allows you browse the entire collection of Rutgers Apps regardless of campus or role.  
MyCommunity
This brings you to the Rutgers social media site. Interact with others, start discussions, and get the latest news.  
News
Access News related to Rutgers. Clicking the down arrow on News gives you other options. 
Reorder News Sections
You can choose which order the 3 main sections, Rutgers Today, Most Viewed, and For You, display in.  
News Source Subscriptions
Enable or disable which news sources you would like to show up in your news feed. Rutgers Today cannot be disabled.  
Maps
Get access to real time bus data, arrival times, stops available and building information.  
Settings
Configure settings related to your profile. Logout can also be found here.  
" KB0017613 Web Portal Managing widgets on the myRutgers Dashboard web portal "
The Dashboard widgets are customizable. Based on your role, you are given a default set of widgets on your Dashboard. Your Dashboard layout will be in sync for both web and mobile. You will only need to make changes once on the web portal or mobile app.
Add a widget
1.	In my Dashboard section, select the + icon on the top-right.
2.	You'll see a popup showing the available widgets to be added. Select the widget(s) that you would like to add.
3.	Click on Add Widgets in the bottom right corner of the popup.
Error! Filename not specified.
Reorder and Remove Widgets
1.	Select the dashboard from the main menu.

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Click the down arrow next to Dashboard.
3.	Click Reorder Widgets.
4.	This will bring up a popup where you can reorganize and remove widgets. Click and drag on the two lines icon to reorder widgets. Click the trash icon to remove a widget. Click Set Order in the lower right when you’re finished to save your changes.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017614 Web Portal Maps page in myRutgers web portal "
The Maps page lets you view Rutgers campuses, available bus routes, and parking lots. In the top left, there are 2 icons, and an icon is in the bottom left.
Error! Filename not specified.
Map
This is the default view. The layout has a map-like look and feel. Hovering over the Map with the Map selected shows a toggle for the terrain. Toggle this on and off to see the topography display on the map.
Satellite
This view shows satellite imagery overlaid on the map.  Hovering over Satellite with Satellite selected shows a toggle for labels. Toggle this on and off to remove the text label overlays on the map.
Open Street View
Drag the yellow person icon located at the bottom left of the map page and drop it on a valid street on the map. You can then look around in 360 view. Click the back arrow in the upper left to exit street view. 
Along the top right are the Map's menu items: Select Campus and Search.
Error! Filename not specified.
Select Campus
Select which campus you would like to display. Your selection is saved, so if you navigate away and come back, your campus of choice is saved.
Error! Filename not specified.
Search
Use the search filter to narrow down results and find what you seek. You can search for: bus routes, stops, buildings, and parking lots. As you search, you can find items that are important to you, so they show up at the top of the list. Click the heart to favorite an item. If the item is already favorited, you can click the heart again to unfavorite it.
Error! Filename not specified.
If you select a route, that route is displayed on the map with the buses and stops associated with it. Two additional buttons are displayed next to Select Campus. 
Error! Filename not specified.
View Route Times
Here you can see which stops are on the route and when the next bus will arrive at each one. If there are multiple buses, multiple next arrival times will be displayed, as shown here. You can click a stop to select it and view more information. 
Error! Filename not specified.
Deselect Route
This will remove your selection of this route, allowing you to view all the stops on the map again. 
View Parking Information
Selecting a parking lot through the search function or directly on the map displays detailed information about that lot.
Error! Filename not specified.
Filter Panel
On the left side of the Maps page, there are toggles for Rutgers-managed parking lots and bus stops. 
Error! Filename not specified.
Toggle Function
In descending order, the functions of the toggle tiles are:
•	Bus Stops - Shows all bus stops indicated by a red icon.
•	All - Highlights all Parking locations managed by Rutgers.
•	myPermit - Highlights parking locations associated with your purchased parking permit.
•	FacStaff - Highlights all Faculty and Staff parking locations.
•	Student - Highlights all Student parking locations.
Additional Parking Filters
Contains a list of parking lot features to filter results. 
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017616 Web Portal my Community feature in myRutgers "
This is a Rutgers-wide social media type of site where you can chat with other students, faculty, and staff, find events going on, start discussions and much more! It's designed based on layouts from other social media applications, which helps make it easy to use. 
my Community provides digital social functions within Rutgers Intranet. Hence, members (faculty, staff, student, alumni, official guest) can connect with each other in their own community.
You can access my Community by going to mycommunity.rutgers.edu.
 
Error! Filename not specified.
 
Profiles
Members can upload avatars, edit profiles and view other members' profiles.
Posts
Members can share videos, pictures, links, and docs on their profiles and groups with custom privacy settings. 
Forum & Discussions
Members can collaborate, engage in asynchronous discussions, share knowledges, find answers, and subscribe/follow on-going threads.
Direct Messages
Members can send private messages to one member or a group of members.
Connections & Followers
Members can view, follow and connect with each other.
Comments & Likes
Members can engage with each other's posts with features including @mentions, pictures, gifs, and more.
Activity Feeds
The activity feed is the landing page with recent posts from people you connected or are following, groups, or forums you are part of, to include just content that is relevant to each member.
" KB0017633 Web Portal my Community Group feature in myRutgers "
my Community allows Rutgers users to organize public, private, or hidden groups with separate activity feeds and member listing.
Error! Filename not specified.

There are 3 different types of group privacy:
Membership Open (Public)
•	Any site member can join this group.
•	This group will be listed in the groups directory and in search results.
•	Group content and activity will be visible to any site member.
Membership Requires Request (Private)
•	Only people who request membership and are accepted can join the group.
•	This group will be listed in the groups directory and in search results.
•	Group content and activity will only be visible to members of the group.
Membership Invite Only (Hidden)
•	Only people who are invited can join the group.
•	This group will not be listed in the groups directory or search results.
•	Group content and activity will only be visible to members of the group.
One of the powerful features about the my Community Group is that it allows for a Group Hierarchy setup. Meaning that if a department has 5 different sub branch divisions, a top level group can be setup to have 5 sub-groups for each of the divisions. When it comes to top-down communication, the setup will ensure the top communication reach every branch of the tree while each sub-group can maintain it’s own autonomy.
To request a my Community Group, please use the New Group Request Form.
" KB0017634 Web Portal myGuest Authorized User | Parent/Guest perspective "
Any authorized user must be configured by the student first. Students can have up to 3 authorized users at any given time. An authorized Parent/Guest will receive a welcome email with instructions to create a Community ID to access their myGuest Dashboard. They will then have to go to the myRutgers portal and login with CommunityID. after logging in they can click on the student's card that they wish to access. 
Instructions for authorized users to get access:
1.	Locate the invitation email that was sent to your email inbox.
2.	Select the Register CommunityID link in the body of the email.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	The CommunityID site will open. Your name and email address are pre-populated but you'll need to complete the following steps.  
1.	Create a password
2.	Confirm your password
3.	Check the CHOPPA checkbox
4.	Select Register

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Once registration is complete, you should be redirected to myRutgers. If not, please go to the myRutgers Portal. Select CommunityID Login.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Enter your email address and the password you just created, and then select Log In.
6.	Select which student you would like to view by clicking on their card. Please take note of the PIN on the card, as you will need this if you need to reach out for support.

Error! Filename not specified.
7.	Here you will see the information you are allowed to view. Click on the “eye” cover icon to reveal private information.

Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017637 Web Portal News page in myRutgers web portal "
The News page contains a variety of news sources and articles about all that is happening at Rutgers.
Home Page
On the home page you'll see a variety of articles displayed in chronological order with the most recent at the top. Click on the article name or Learn More to view an article. You may also click on the News Source name for an article to view all articles from that source.
 
Error! Filename not specified.
 
After selecting an article you'll see some additional information about it: an optional description, how long ago it was posted, who posted it, and the news source that it is from. Click the Read More to go to the actual article. Hit the back button in the upper left to go back to the News homepage. 
 
Error! Filename not specified.
 
Along the top are the News menu items: View News Sources, Search and Logout. 
 
Error! Filename not specified.
 
View News Sources
Selecting this pulls up a list of news sources available. Click on one to view all articles from that source. 
 
Error! Filename not specified.
 
Search
Type into the search bar to narrow down what news articles you are looking at based on what was typed.  
Log out
Clicking this icon will sign you out of your current myRutgers session.
Managing your News
You can reorder the sections of your news feed and subscribe or unsubscribe to other news sources. These features are available from the left side menu. Click the down arrow to show them.
 
Error! Filename not specified.
 
Reorder
If you wish to change the order of the sections on your news page, you can drag them into the order you like by grabbing the two parallel lines on the right side of the item. Save the order in the bottom right by clicking Set Order.
 
Error! Filename not specified.
 
News Source Subscriptions
All the news sources available are listed here. Toggle the box to subscribe or unsubscribe to that source. Some news sources cannot be unsubscribed and you will see a disabled checkbox next to those. Hit Set in the bottom right to save your changes.
 
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0017639 Web Portal Top navigation bar in the myRutgers web portal "
Along the top are the dashboard menu items. There are 5 icons in total. From left to right:
Error! Filename not specified.
Add a Widget
You can add additional widgets to your dashboard through here. Options available to you will display in the center of the screen. You may also search by name for a widget as well as filter by category using the dropdown menu on the right side. Each widget has a down arrow to display more information and a plus sign to select the widget. You may select multiple widgets at a time. Add them by clicking Select a Widget in the lower right. 
If you would like to reorder your widgets, click the open/close the menu button in the top left and then click the down arrow next to Dashboard. Click on Reorder Widgets. Drag and drop to reorder widgets as you see fit to put the ones you use most towards the top. You may also delete a widget from your dashboard. Some widgets cannot be removed. Click Set Order in the lower right to save changes.
Error! Filename not specified.
Hide/show sensitive information
Toggling this on an off will hide or show information such as your grades, your phone number, finances and more. Alternatively, if data is hidden, you can click on a piece of information that has an “eye” icon to reveal the hidden information one at a time. Click it again to hide that information.  
Notifications
Any notifications you have will be displayed here. You can mark notifications as read. You can also view your history of past notifications. 
Search
You may search from one of four categories: People, Websites, RBHS and Buildings. Select your category then enter the search term you are looking for. 
Error! Filename not specified.
Log out
Exit your current session.
" KB0012447 Webex Adding the Cisco Webex Scheduler to Rutgers Connect "
Cisco Webex Meetings Scheduler for Microsoft Office 365 makes it easy for you to schedule, start, and join Webex meetings and Personal Room meetings directly from Microsoft Outlook. When it's time to join, everyone can click the calendar invitation link or join from a video system or phone.
Please note: If you currently use the Cisco WebEx Productivity Tools with the Outlook desktop application, please follow the directions at How Do I Uninstall Webex Productivity Tools? before adding the Cisco Webex Meeting Scheduler. Meetings created with the Cisco Webex Productivity Tools cannot be edited after switching to the Cisco Webex Meeting Scheduler add-in. If you need to modify existing meetings, please do so in the Outlook Desktop application and prepare to transition to the Cisco Webex Meeting Scheduler.
Instructions for adding Cisco Webex Scheduler to Rutgers Connect:
1.	Login to Rutgers Connect.
2.	Go to Cisco Webex Scheduler on App Source.
3.	Select Get Now and follow the on-screen instructions.
Before you can schedule a meeting using the Webex Scheduler, you must specify the Webex site to use with your account:
1.	Login to Rutgers Connect. 
2.	Open the Outlook Calendar.
3.	Select New Event > Cisco Webex Scheduler Icon > Add Webex Meeting.

Error! Filename not specified.
4.	A pop-up Welcome screen will appear to start the Cisco Webex Scheduler setup.
5.	Select Get Started.
6.	You will see a prompt. Enter rutgers.webex.com in the box and select Next.

     Error! Filename not specified.
7.	You will be redirected to log in to Rutgers Connect again. Enter your login email address in the format netid@domain.rutgers.edu and continue to log in with your NetID and NetID password.
8.	After a few moments, a link to the meeting will be added to the location field, and the meeting details will be added to the appointment body.
9.	Outlook is now configured with Cisco Webex Scheduler.
" KB0012453 Webex Allow another user to schedule Webex meetings on your behalf "
If you have a host account, you can schedule meetings on behalf of someone in your organization. That person must allow you to schedule meetings on their behalf via the following steps:
Webex Site
1.	After you sign in to your Webex account in Modern View, click on Preferences on the left-hand side menu.
2.	Click on the Scheduling icon.
3.	In the text box for Scheduling Permission type in the email addresses of the people who can schedule meetings on your behalf. A comma should separate multiple email addresses.
4.	Click Save to save your preferences.
Microsoft Outlook using the Webex App
First, give the person permission through the Webex site as outlined above.
*Caution: When giving delegate access in Outlook, pay attention to the permissions you give to the delegate so that you do not lose notification access on your personal calendar.
Windows
1.	Open Microsoft Outlook and go to File > Account Settings > Delegate Access.
2.	Select Add and find the person that you want to set as a delegate.
3.	In the Calendar field, click on Editor and select OK.
Mac
1.	Open Microsoft Outlook and go to Tools > Accounts.
2.	Select Delegation and Sharing.
3.	Select the plus + button under the heading labeled: Delegates who can act on my behalf.
4.	Enter the name of the person that you want to assign as a delegate and select Add.
5.	In the Calendar field, select Editor and select OK.
If you need to schedule a meeting on someone else’s behalf, follow these instructions.
" KB0012460 Webex Best practices for secure Webex meetings "
Webex is an important tool for the Rutgers community to meet and collaborate in real time. While Webex provides a secure environment, it is also an open place to share information. This makes it extremely important to know the best practices of Webex security. Below are a few general rules to follow and six useful tips.
•	Do not share your Audio PIN or Host key with anyone.
•	Provide meeting passwords only to users who need them.
•	Never share sensitive information in your meeting until you know who is in attendance.
Use scheduled meetings instead of your personal room
Webex has two different modes – scheduled meetings and personal rooms. Scheduled meetings are designed for higher security, while personal rooms are aimed at ease of use. A scheduled meeting is like booking a conference room with a keycard entry for all attendees, whereas a personal room leaves your office open all the time, waiting for someone to show up to start the meeting. You should only use scheduled meetings for class meetings and other large gatherings. You should NOT use your personal room. For more information on scheduling a meeting, visit Scheduling a meeting with your personal account page. Please note there are other web conferencing tools available for class meetings and lectures in the university’s learning management systems. See the information on the Technology Resources for Remote Instruction webpage at the university-wide information technology guide.
Thoughtfully distribute your meeting invitation
Please ensure that all of the invitees are appropriate for the meeting and discourage invitees from forwarding the meeting invite.
Restrict access to the meeting
Lock the meeting once all attendees have joined the meeting. This practice prevents more attendees from joining. Hosts can lock or unlock the meeting at any time while the session progresses. To lock a meeting that you’re currently hosting, select Meeting > Lock Meeting.
For personal rooms, this option will allow anyone joining the meeting, including participants invited to the meeting, to enter the meeting lobby to await admission by the host and/or moderators of the meeting.
Participants cannot join most scheduled meetings even if they have been invited.
To unlock a meeting that you’re currently hosting, select Meeting > Unlock Meeting.
Validate identity of all users in a call
Accounting for every attendee by using a roll call is a secure practice. Ask users to turn on their video or state their names to confirm their identity.
Remove a participant from the meeting
Participants can be expelled at any time during a meeting. Select the participant's name whom you want to remove, then select Participant > Expel. If it is necessary to expel disruptive participants, it is best to lock the meeting as described above. Doing so will prevent expelled attendees from attempting to rejoin and cause further disruptions.
Share application, not screen
Use Share > Application > instead of Share > My Screen to share specific applications and prevent accidental exposure of sensitive information on your screen.
For more Webex security best practices, please visit Cisco Webex Best Practices for Secure Meetings: Hosts resource at the Cisco Webex Help Center.
" KB0012468 Webex Breakout sessions in Webex meetings "
To start breakout sessions in Webex Meetings, view the Webex Support page for Breakout Sessions in Webex Meetings.
" KB0012479 Webex Comparing Webex Meetings and Webinars "
Webex enables you to host various types of sessions, tailored to the nature of the session. The tables below detail the purposes and differences between the sessions: meetings and webinars. 
 
Comparison of Webex Meetings and Webinars
 	Cisco Webex meetings	Cisco Webex Webinars
 	Error! Filename not specified.
Error! Filename not specified.
Product description	Present information, share applications, and collaborate on projects in a centralized space.	Stage large-scale online events.
Usage scenarios	Collaborative sessions, internal and external meetings, product and project coordination, demos, sales presentations	Webinars, events and conferences, product launches, employee communications
Number of attendees	Up to 1,000 (including 200 video devices)	Up to 3,000 
Information sharing		
Real-time sharing	Screen, application, file, and browser	Screen, application, file, and browser
Multimedia sharing	Yes	Yes
Whiteboards and annotation tools	Yes	Yes
Text chat (managed and moderated)	Yes	Yes
File transfer	Yes	Available on request
Audio and video		
Audio options	Webex Cloud Connected Audio, Webex PSTN, VoIP, Telephony Service Provider	Audio broadcast, Webex Cloud Connected Audio, Webex PSTN, VoIP, Telephony Service Provider
Audio features	•	Integrated scheduling and reservation-less conferencing
•	Dial in, Call Me, or Connect with My Computer (with high definition audio)
•	Active-speaker indicator and intelligent video switching
•	Mute/unmute participants invite by phone
•	Seamless switching between telephony audio and VOIP
•	Robust security options	•	Integrated scheduling
•	Dial-in, Call Me, Connect with My Computer (with high definition audio), or audio broadcast
•	Active-speaker indicator and intelligent video switching
•	Mute/unmute participants
•	Seamless switching between telephony audio and VOIP
Video	•	HD video
•	Multipoint
•	Full-screen view
•	Expanded full-screen view	•	High-quality video
•	Multipoint
•	Full-screen video
Video devices	Cisco and third-party endpoints; Cisco and third-party soft clients; Webex mobile, desktop, and web; Microsoft Skype for Business	Webex desktop and mobile (attendees)
Special features		
Personal room	Yes	—
Avatars	Yes	—
Participant list	Yes	Yes
Polling	Yes	Yes
Program and campaign management and post-event surveys	—	Yes
Lead source tracking and enrollment scoring	—	Yes
Registration management	Yes	Yes
Testing, instant grading, and instructor scoring	—	—
Breakout sessions and hands-on labs	—	—
Permissions-based remote control	Yes	Yes
Reports	Yes	Yes
Paid sessions (e-commerce)	—	Yes
Connection options		
Operating system support (Windows, Mac, Linux)	Yes	Yes
Join and attend from mobile devices	Yes	Yes
Join and attend from web app (no download)	Yes	 
Join and attend from email invitation	Yes	Yes
Inbound support request	—	—
Tools and options		
Network-based recording	Yes	Yes
Microsoft Outlook and Lotus Notes integration	Yes	Yes
Enterprise integrations	Cisco Jabber, Cisco Endpoints, Cisco Webex, Microsoft Skype for Business	—
Management	 	 
User management	Yes	Yes
Site management	Yes	Yes
Site report	Yes	Yes
Localization		
Languages	Arabic, Bulgarian, Chinese (Simplified), Chinese (Traditional), Croatian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Norwegian, Polish, Portuguese (Brazil), Romanian, Russian, Serbian, Spanish (European), Spanish (Latin America), Swedish, Turkish	Arabic, Bulgarian, Chinese (Simplified), Chinese (Traditional), Croatian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Norwegian, Polish, Portuguese (Brazil), Romanian, Russian, Serbian, Spanish (European), Spanish (Latin America), Swedish, Turkish
Availability	Supported on all platforms	Supported on all platforms 
" KB0014628 Webex Do Webex at Rutgers users have access to the new Webex app? "
Rutgers users have access to the Webex app which is downloadable on the Webex Download page.
A Quick Start Guide and other references can be found on the Rutgers Webex page.
" KB0012522 Webex Getting started with Cisco Webex Webinars "
Webex Webinars make hosting an online event easy. Whether launching a product or holding an all-hands, you can deliver a polished, interactive presentation with multimedia, Q&A, and polling to engage your audience.
For information on getting started, you can find documentation at the Webex Webinar Help Center.
" KB0013117 Webex How do I set up a microphone and a camera on Webex? "
Before you Join
Camera Setup 
The Video Preview window appears after you click on the link to join the room. Adjust your camera input settings by clicking Settings in the navigation sidebar, select Video, then choose the desired camera input from the Camera drop-down menu. 
Microphone Setup 
Select Call me at and enter or select a phone number, including the area code you want Webex to call you. After you click Join Meeting, answer the call when your phone rings, and you can speak during the meeting on your phone.
After altering your microphone/camera choice, you may click on Start/Join Meeting.
During the Meeting
Camera Setup
Click on the caret in the Start/Stop Video button to alter Camera Settings.
Microphone Setup 
Selecting Use computer for audio will connect you using your computer’s microphone and speakers. You can change the input/output devices by navigating to Audio > Speaker, Microphone, and Camera.
" KB0013113 Webex How do Webex recordings work? "
Only the host or an alternate host can record a meeting. You cannot record if the recording option is not available.
If an alternate host records the meeting, the meeting host still receives and owns the recording after the meeting ends.
If you record on your computer in MP4 format, the panels, such as the Chat panel, and any files you share using Share File are not included in the recording. Recordings in the cloud are saved in MP4 format. Computer recordings are saved in MP4 format or Webex Recording Format (WRF).
After recording, you must log in to Webex and download the recording to view it. Otherwise, you can delete it and purge it from your account.
For more information, please consult our knowledge article on recording a Webex meeting. 
Please note that the cloud storage for recordings is 25GB. 
" KB0012554 Webex How to create your Webex account "
Depending on your role at Rutgers University, you can create your Webex personal account by following the information below:
Faculty/Staff and Student Role
Faculty/Staff and Students have access to personal Webex accounts. To create your account:
1.	Navigate to the Service Activation page and log in with your NetID and NetID password.
2.	Find the box labeled Webex.
3.	Click Activate Service.
4.	Wait 15 minutes after activating your account.
5.	Navigate to the Rutgers Webex page and select Sign-in at the top of the screen.
6.	Log in with your NetID and NetID password.
Guest Role
Guests interested in activating a Webex account should contact their local Rutgers Connect Domain Administrator to provision an account. Once an account is provisioned, guests should follow the steps above to create their account. 
" KB0013126 Webex I forgot my password for Webex. What do I do? "
Your Rutgers Webex account uses your Rutgers NetID password. If you have forgotten your NetID password, you can reset it at the Forgotten NetID password page.
The login email used for your account may vary if you change your email address on your profile directly in Webex. To confirm what email address to log in with, go to the Service Activation page and find it listed under the Webex box. 
" KB0012576 Webex Joining a Webex meeting with your personal account "
There are multiple ways to join a meeting. Here are the two most common methods.
From an Email Invitation
1.	From your email application, open the meeting invitation.
2.	Select the Meeting URL link to join the meeting.
3.	If prompted, sign in with your profile information.
From your Cisco Webex Site in Modern View
1.	Sign in to WebEx.
2.	In Modern View, you will see a Join a Meeting tile in the upper-right corner of your screen. If you know the meeting number or the host’s Personal Room ID, enter it in the text box.
3.	Any meetings you have been invited to or are hosting will be listed under Meetings on the left-hand side of the page. Click the green arrow button to join the meeting.
4.	Note: If you are the meeting host, select Start Meeting. The green arrow pointing down allows you to choose how you would like to join the meeting: 
o	Always choose the best option for me (Recommended) – Allows the website to decide whether you join the meeting via a desktop app or a web app. Only available for Windows and Mac users.
o	Always start/join from the desktop app – If you do not have the desktop app installed, the app will automatically download.
o	Always start/join from the web app – Joins the meeting via the browser.
5.	Once you are placed in the web meeting room, you can join the audio portion of the meeting by selecting Call using the computer, using the phone to call in, calling my phone, or using a hardware video system you may have installed in your office/conference room.
" KB0012623 Webex Preventing uninvited guests from joining your Webex meeting "
Locking Webex Meetings
To prevent uninvited guests from joining your Webex meeting, lock it. 
1.	From the meeting window, select the ellipses (...).
2.	Select Lock Meeting.
3.	A small key should appear in the upper-right corner, indicating that the meeting is locked.
4.	When someone attempts to join, they will be placed in a holding state until you allow them into the room.
You can also expel uninvited participants at any time during the meeting:
1.	Select the name of the participant whom you want to remove
2.	Click Participant > Expel.
Preventing Guests from Joining Scheduled Meetings
As a meeting host, you can also require that attendees sign in to the Webex site before joining a scheduled meeting.
1.	Sign in to your Webex account.
2.	Go to Meetings > Schedule
3.	Enter the details of your meeting.
4.	Select Show advanced options > Scheduling Options > Unlocked meetings section, check Guests can't join the meeting. 
5.	Select Schedule or Start.
" KB0012628 Webex Providing IT support for Webex Meetings "
Individual Account Provisioning
Users can self-provision a Webex account via the Service Activation page. Users can also enable this service when activating their NetID for the first time. See the Personal Account Requirements section below for more information on creating individual accounts. 
Shared Account Provisioning
Shared accounts must be created by a Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator. All shared Webex accounts must be associated with a service account in Rutgers Connect. 
You can ask your Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator to activate a shared Webex account for an existing service account or make you a new service account. 
Account Types and Features
Webex supports several account types. Most users will only utilize Host accounts.
You do not need an account to attend a Webex meeting and should not get a Webex account unless you intend to host meetings or manage a shared account.
Host Account – Webex Native
•	
o	
	A host account is a licensed account capable of hosting meetings.
	All host accounts must be licensed.
	Host accounts that have not hosted meetings recently enough will be deactivated to manage license costs.
	Faculty and Staff will be licensed in a manner that provides PSTN phone bridge capabilities.
	Students will be licensed in a manner that does not provide PSTN features. They will have VOIP capability only for audio participation.
Shared Account –RU specific configuration of a host account.
•	
o	
	Shared accounts are normal host accounts except those not mapped to an individual's NetID.
	Shared account meetings can be hosted by logging into the service account, or by someone designated as a co-host on a meeting. 
	As currently implemented, shared accounts will not support standing phone bridges for personal meeting rooms.
Personal Account Requirements
Users must hold an active faculty, staff, or student role to self-provision a person's Webex account. Guests must contact their Rutgers Connect Domain Administrator to have a Webex account activated. See the following page regarding creating a personal Webex account for information on creating a Webex account. 
Shared Account Requirements
A shared Webex account allows multiple users to access and manage the account. To access information on the shared Webex account, you need to be a delegated user for that account. Your Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator can provision and manage access to your shared Webex account. 
" KB0012635 Webex Recording a Webex meeting "
Currently, the storage space for recordings in the cloud is 25GB. You can record as many meetings or classes as needed within this capacity limit; however, all recordings have a 3-year retention before automatically deleting them.
1.	While in the meeting, select Record.
2.	If using a Windows device, a dialog box will appear and ask if you want to save the recording in the cloud on on your computer. 
o	If you choose to record on your computer, select Accept if prompted to agree to your organization’s privacy and security guidelines. Then choose a location to save the recording, and click Save.
o	NOTE: You can only record audio on your computer using the Call Using Computer option.
3.	While recording, you can press Record to do one of the following:
o	Select Pause and Resume to maintain a single recording, but to stop and resume the recording as necessary. 
o	Select Stop to end your current recording.
4.	If you recorded in the cloud, you receive an email with the recording link when the meeting or event ends. Depending on file size and bandwidth, it can take up to 24 hours to receive your recording.
5.	To view/access your recordings, log on to Webex and select Recordings on the left-hand side menu.
6.	After making a recording, you can disable the ability to download it by navigating to Webex > Recordings > My Recordings. Select the recording to edit, then press Edit Recording > check off Prevent downloading.
 
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0012642 Webex Requesting a shared Webex account "
Shared accounts can be requested by contacting your Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator. 
All shared Webex accounts must be associated with a service account in Rutgers Connect. Your Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator can assist you in creating a new service account with a shared Webex account attached, or they can activate a shared Webex account for an existing service account in Rutgers Connect.
The Webex ID for a shared account cannot be customized. It will automatically be generated based on the service account name. 
" KB0012660 Webex Scheduling a Webex meeting on behalf of another user "
To schedule a meeting on behalf of someone else, that person must have allowed another host to schedule meetings on their behalf first.
Webex Site
1.	Sign in to the Rutgers Webex site.
2.	In Modern View, click on the Schedule a Meeting tile.
3.	In the drop-down list titled Schedule for, select the host’s name for whom you’re scheduling the meeting. If you do not see the host’s name, they have not yet allowed you to schedule a meeting on his/her behalf. Please allow another user to schedule meetings on your behalf.
4.	Enter the details of the meeting. If you want other hosts to be able to start the meeting check the box for: Let anyone with a host account on this site or anyone joining from a Cisco Webex cloud-registered video device in this organization host my meeting.
5.	Select Schedule to schedule your meeting for later.
Microsoft Outlook using the Webex App
1.	Ensure that you have been assigned as a delegate by the person you are scheduling a meeting for and that they have shared their calendar with you in Outlook.
2.	In Outlook, click on Calendar and access the other user’s calendar.
3.	Schedule a meeting using the Webex Meeting button in the top bar.
4.	In the Webex Settings box that opens, you should see a highlighted sentence that says, "You are scheduling for [name of person] that assigned you as a delegate"
5.	Continue with the title, date, time, attendees, and other information you want to add for the meeting.
" KB0012662 Webex Scheduling a Webex meeting with your personal account "
After activating your Rutgers Webex account, you can schedule a meeting via the web client or the Webex extension in Outlook.
Scheduling via the Web in Modern View
1.	Go to Rutgers Webex
2.	Sign in with your NetID and password.
3.	Select Schedule a Meeting.
4.	Fill out the topic, date, time, duration, and add attendees by email address.
5.	Select the Schedule button when done. If you start the meeting immediately, the button will say Start instead of Schedule.
6.	You can find your scheduled meetings by clicking Calendar on the left-hand side of the website.
Schedule via Rutgers Connect on the Web
Follow the steps on adding the Cisco Webex Meeting Scheduler to Rutgers Connect to schedule meetings through Rutgers Connect on the Web.
Schedule via Outlook
1.	To schedule Webex meetings via Outlook, you must install the Cisco Webex Productivity Tools, available in the Downloads section of Rutgers Webex. You must have a Webex account before logging in to this page and downloading the app. 
o	Please note: If you currently use the Cisco WebEx Productivity Tools with the Outlook desktop application, please follow the instructions in the article titled "How Do I Uninstall WebEx Productivity Tools?" before adding the Cisco WebEx Meeting Scheduler. Meetings created with the Cisco Webex Productivity Tools cannot be edited after switching to the Cisco Webex Meeting Scheduler add-in. If you need to modify existing meetings, please do so in the Outlook Desktop application and prepare to transition to the Cisco Webex Meeting Scheduler.
2.	Open Outlook.
3.	Select Calendar. 
1.	Schedule a meeting via Webex. Alternatively, start a new meeting and select the Add Webex Meeting button from the Ribbon.
2.	Select your invitees.
3.	Send the meeting request. 
	The first time you create a Webex meeting, you may be prompted to set its settings.
4.	These settings can be changed after they are set by selecting Change Settings in the Ribbon next to the Webex Meeting button.
" KB0012690 Webex Sharing a presentation on a Touch 10 unit while in a Webex meeting "
A presentation can be shared from another device using the Multi-Connector or via WiFi or Bluetooth using Proximity.
Multi-Connector set up
1.	Plug the Multi-Connector into your laptop.
2.	On the Cisco Touch 10 unit, there will be two options: 
o	Local Preview: This will only be visible in your room, so you can see what you will be sharing before actually sharing it.
o	Share in Call: This will share your screen with all call participants.
Proximity set up
To use Proximity, the Cisco Telepresence Unit must have Proximity enabled. Speak with your Departmental IT if this needs to be enabled.
Proximity is available for download from the Cisco website, the App Store, or the Google Play Store.
1.	After downloading and installing the Proximity app, launch the application.
2.	The application will search the area for proximity-enabled Cisco Touch Units.
3.	Once a system is found, the PC will be automatically connected.
4.	Once connected, there will be two options: Share Screen or Make a Call.
5.	When connected, the PC effectively works as the Touch 10 unit.
Installing Proximity on a mobile device.
1.	Please download the Proximity app from the App Store or Google Play Store.
2.	Open the Proximity app.
3.	The Proximity app will begin searching for a Proximity-enabled Cisco Touch Unit.
4.	Once connected to a Touch 10 unit, you can share its screen or make calls.
Miracast and AirPlay
Miracast and AirPlay may work for newer room systems, depending on network locality. Please contact your Departmental IT to enable these options on your system.
" KB0012712 Webex Using the self-view option on a Cisco Touch 10 unit "
Self-view settings can be changed through the Touch 10 unit.
1.	Select Settings in the upper right corner.
2.	Select Camera > Self-view.
" KB0012717 Webex Webex account audits "
Who can have a Webex account?
According to the Office of Information Technology guidelines, only the following classes of people are eligible to have Webex accounts:
•	Current employees of Rutgers University
•	Current students
•	Professor Emeritus
•	Guests: individuals who are conducting University business and are directly associated with the University but are not officially on the University's payroll. For example, visiting professors/scholars, members of auxiliary groups, and others working on University business or affiliated with the University.
The following groups of people are not automatically eligible to Webex accounts:
•	Former employees (including teaching/graduate assistants who may still be students but are not actively working for Rutgers)
•	Employees of other organizations who are performing work at Rutgers
•	Alumni
•	Retirees
Any of the above may be eligible for a guest account if a department or division of Rutgers is willing to sponsor them. Please see the Guest Account page for further information.
Recently re-hired employees who have not yet been added to the RIAS payroll system and thereby given a Faculty or Staff role may have their department's payroll person use the Early Employee NetID form to request an early role.
How can I keep my Webex account?
We determine which accounts should be closed by comparing Webex usernames with the active roles (e.g., Faculty, or Staff) of usernames listed in the University's Open Registry (OR) service, which is used as the basis for the Rutgers Online Directory. The OR may have some information that needs to be corrected.
If you have received an account closure notice, and believe this is in error ,please find the group you belong to in the appropriate subsection below (Current Employees, Guests, Students, Others) and follow the instructions there.
Current Employees
You may not be listed in the OR as a current employee. To check this, go to the Search for People tool and search for your name. Review each result if you get more than one. Contact your department’s Human Resources person if your name does not appear.
When your entry appears, review the information there. If it is incorrect, contact your department's Human Resources person.
If your information is correct, or when your department's Human Resources person has corrected your record, your department’s Rutgers Delegated Administrator can verify that your account is no longer subject to closure.
Students
You may not be listed in the OR as a current student. To check this, go to the Search for People tool and search for your name. Review each result if you get more than one. If your name does not appear, please inquire about your registration via One Stop.
When your entry appears, review the information there. If it is incorrect, please inquire about your registration via One Stop.
Guests
If you are affiliated with Rutgers but not actually employed full-time by Rutgers, you may request a guest account. Have a sponsor at the department you are working with go to the Guest Account site, and submit a request for you, which will be sent to our Accounts Office for processing.
Every year, you must renew your guest account. You will be notified when the time to renew your account arrives (30 days prior to the expiration of the account).
Your Rutgers Delegated Administrator can assist your sponsor with submitting a Guest Account request and creating your Webex account, if necessary.
Others
If you do not fit into any of the above categories, you may want to try contacting a department at Rutgers related to your work and ask if they would be willing to sponsor a Guest account for you.
We have no mechanism for people no longer associated with Rutgers to pay a fee and thus keep their accounts. These people should be able to pay for a full account on various video conference providers from various web services. Rutgers cannot recommend one such group over another.
What is the typical account audit timeline?
Once an account is found to be ineligible for Webex:
•	On day one, i.e., same day found to be ineligible: The account is sent an email notification.
•	On day seven, i.e., approximately one week later: The account is locked out of Webex.
•	On day thirty-five, i.e., approximately 5 weeks later: The account is deleted from Webex.
Note: If the account is found to be eligible for Webex at any time prior to deletion, the account will exit the audit.
What should I do before the account is closed?
If you will be losing your Webex account, you may want to take some of the following steps.
•	Contact the IT staff in your department to determine the correct protocol for the data (recordings, upcoming meetings) in your account. Departments that handle PHI or other sensitive data may have procedures put in place for security.
•	You will lose access to your Webex recordings once your account is deleted, so you want to save them to another location. Please contact your local IT staff to assist with this process.
What happens after the account is closed?
After your account is closed, you will lose access to your Webex account.
Approximately 4 weeks after your account is closed, your Webex account will be deleted.
When an account is deleted, you will no longer be able to access Webex service.s
For further assistance
If you have questions about any of the above, you can send e-mail to help@oit.rutgers.edu or contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0012718 Webex Webex account eligibility "
Members of Rutgers University are eligible for a Webex account. Webex licenses will differ for an individual depending on their role with the university. Please find the role most appropriate to you to find more information on the Webex account you can access. 
Webex Account Eligibility at Rutgers University: Features and Licensing by User Role (Faculty/Staff, Students, Guests)
Role	License Information
Faculty/Staff	All faculty and staff are eligible to activate a Webex personal account. Personal accounts for faculty and staff will include the following features by default: 
•	A personal account is a licensed account capable of hosting meetings. 
o	Note: Personal accounts that have not hosted meetings recently enough will be deactivated to manage license costs.
•	Faculty and Staff will be licensed in a manner that provides PSTN phone bridge capabilities.
•	During the activation process, faculty/staff will be automatically provisioned a Webex Meeting Center license.
•	Faculty/Staff can reach out to their Rutgers Connect domain administrator to be additionally provisioned with Training center and Webinar center licenses.
•	All faculty/staff will have 25GB of storage space for recordings in the cloud.
Students	All students are eligible to activate a Webex personal account. Personal accounts for students will include the following features by default: 
•	A personal account is a licensed account capable of hosting meetings. 
o	Note: Personal accounts that have not hosted meetings recently enough will be deactivated to manage license costs.
•	Students will be licensed in a manner that does not provide PSTN features. They will have VOIP capability only for audio participation.
•	During the activation process, students will be automatically provisioned a Webex Meeting Center license.
•	All students will have 25BG of storage space for recordings in the cloud.
 
Guests	Rutgers guests are eligible to activate a Webex personal account; however, they cannot be self-provisioned. Guests who are interested in activating a Webex account should speak to their local Rutgers Connect Domain Administrator.
A Webex personal account for guests will include the following capabilities:
•	A personal account is a licensed account capable of hosting meetings.
•	Personal accounts that have not hosted meetings recently enough will be deactivated to manage license costs.
•	Guests will be licensed in a manner that provides PSTN phone bridge capabilities.
•	The default license assigned to guests will be a Webex Meeting Center license.
•	Guests can reach out to their Rutgers Connect domain admin to be additionally provisioned with Training center and Webinar center licenses.
•	All guests will have 25GB of storage space for recordings in the cloud.
 
 
" KB0017427 Webex Webex Calling "
Webex Calling replaces Jabber as the University's softphone system. It allows you to use the Webex app on your desktop or mobile device like your office phone. 
Requirements
You must have a Cisco desk phone to utilize Webex Calling since it will use your office phone number.
You will also need to have a Rutgers Webex account. You can confirm your account is active on the Service Activation page under the Webex section. 
To utilize Webex Calling on a mobile device, download the Webex app from the Intune Company Portal app, not from your phone's default app store. Using it on your desktop requires the installation of the Webex App. 
To set up for Webex Calling, submit a Voice Services Ticket and include the MAC address of your office phone. The MAC address can be found listed on the back of your phone. After Voice Services has enabled the feature on your account, you will be provided instructions on completing the setup in the Webex App. 
Additional Information
For more information, view Webex's article on the supporting calling options and instructions on how to call anyone with a phone number. 
 
" KB0012720 Webex Webex meetings best practices and overview "
Table of Contents
•	General Information
•	Before your meeting
•	Reduce distractions
•	Can you hear me now?
•	They still can’t hear me!
•	I lost my: Participants, Chats, Video Control!
•	Sharing Content
•	I can’t stop sharing!
•	Annotations
General Information
Rutgers University provides Webex Meeting access to all current faculty, staff, and students. This video conferencing solution allows you to communicate and collaborate with others using audio, video, chat, file sharing, whiteboard, and other tools. It can be used for:
•	Scheduled or “on the fly” meetings
•	Office hours
•	Hybrid and online courses
•	Group work
•	Study sessions
•	Support
•	And more
Webex is easy to use and can be used on any computer with an internet connection. It will install on your computer the first time that you use it. It’s also accessible through most smartphone and other mobile devices.
Video conferencing units can also be used with Webex Meetings but may not have access to all functionality (e.g. file sharing, polling). If you are in a room with video conferencing equipment, you may want one of the in-person attendees to log in using a laptop.
Before your meeting
•	Use Outlook to schedule meetings using the Webex meetings desktop app. This makes it easy to invite others, send updates and reminders, and stay organized.
•	Log in and test Webex Meetings before your session to ensure you have installed the software and it’s working as expected.
•	Close all programs, particularly those that might use audio/video before starting Webex. Email and chat alerts can be very distracting for both you and your attendees. Quitting other programs will ensure that Webex has full access to your audio and/or video.
•	Start your meeting early. Most meetings can’t start without you (the host) so make sure that you’re online ahead of time to allow attendees to enter and check audio and/or video before the meeting begins.
•	Wired connections are best. Although wireless access is available in many locations, the meeting quality may be worse.
•	Use a phone or wired headset if possible, as they will provide the best audio. Ensure you check for any potential audio errors on your device's settings.
Reduce distractions
If you have many attendees (participants), you may want to adjust your participant settings for the meeting. These can be changed throughout the meeting if needed.
•	Enable/Check: Mute on Entry
•	Disable/Uncheck: Entry and Exit Tone
•	Disable/Uncheck: Anyone Can Share
Error! Filename not specified.
Can you hear me now?
Webex will prompt you to select your audio options once you start your meeting. You can use your computer or video conferencing unit audio or a phone. If you’re using your computer, the default microphone and speakers will be selected. You can change your settings from the pop-up menu next to your Mute button or from the Audio button in the top menu bar.
Error! Filename not specified.
You can switch connections between your system audio and telephone by selecting Switch audio at the bottom of this same menu.
Error! Filename not specified.
If you’re using your computer audio, you may want to switch between a headset, webcam, speakers, and/or built-in microphone by first clicking Change Settings and then using the pull-down menus.
If you are in a room with a Telepresence system, you may want to use the Connect to a Video System option found underneath the Ellipses (...) menu.
 
Error! Filename not specified.
They still can’t hear me!
Look at the microphone button at the bottom of your Webex window. If there is a slash through the microphone and it reads Unmute, that means you’ve muted yourself. The microphone button is a toggle, so simply click it. Your audio will turn on, and the slash will be removed from the microphone.
Additionally, if the intended microphone isn't appearing - please check the device's settings to troubleshoot and configure any errors with the microphone's connection to the device.
Note: You can see which of your attendees are muted in the Participants list as indicated by the red microphone icon to the right of their names. The default position for the Participants panel is on the top right, but you may have moved it or hidden it (see below to restore it).
Error! Filename not specified.
I lost my: Participants, Chats, Video Control!
Sometimes, you collapse a panel to get more room on your screen, and then can’t figure out where it went. You can go to the View menu to Restore Layout, Show Panels, Show Participant Video, or Show or Hide Meeting Controls.
If that doesn’t help, check if it’s on a second monitor or behind another window if you were screen sharing.
Error! Filename not specified.
Sharing Content
Webex allows you to share content and annotate that content!
•	Screen Sharing is easy and gives you flexibility, especially if you need to switch between applications.
•	File Sharing is an excellent option for static content (e.g. an agenda or a copy of the presentation) and can be helpful because participants can save the files. Please note that recordings won’t contain files, and Telepresence, Video conferencing units, and non-Webex video conferencing applications cannot access shared files. Multiple files can be shared.
•	Application Sharing allows you to share a single application on your computers, such as PowerPoint or Excel, without sharing your entire desktop, so there’s less chance of accidentally displaying the content you may not want to share. Everything except the explicitly shared application will be grayed out for the participants when sharing an application. Placing another window over the shared application window results in the overlapped section being grayed out. If you’ve moved the shared application window to another screen, it will still be visible to the participants until you stop sharing.
•	Whiteboard Sharing Only works for the Webex software application and does not deliver a consistent experience across all platforms, so it is not recommended for use now.
You can select the type of content by going to the Share menu or clicking the Share button at the bottom of the screen.
Error! Filename not specified.
    
I can’t stop sharing!
At the top of your screen, you should see an orange tab, which will expand when you place your mouse over the area. The Stop Sharing button is on the right.
Note: There’s also a Pause sharing option in case you want to suspend sharing while arranging windows or opening files.
Error! Filename not specified.
Annotations
Annotations allow you to draw over any shared content. You’ll see an orange tab at the top of your screen when sharing content. When you place your mouse over the tab, it will expand to allow you access to the annotation tool. To get out of that mode, click the Annotate option again. All annotations will be cleared, so save them first if you want to save them.
Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0012721 Webex Webex Polling "
Webex Polls
Hosts or cohosts in meetings/webinars can create polls to use and share questionnaires.
To use polls in a meeting, turn polling on by going to Advanced Options > Scheduling Options > Meeting Options or Advanced Options > Scheduling Options > Webinar Options.
How to create polls
Select View > Panels > Manage Panels during your meeting, then select Polling > Add > OK.
From there, you can select the ellipsis and select Polling. Select the question type from the drop-down list in the Question section (Short Answer, Multiple Choice - Multiple Answer, Multiple Choice - Single Answer).  
Click New to create a new question - and fill in the appropriate questions and answer sections! From there, you select your poll and click Open Poll to present to your attendees.
To end the poll, click Close Poll and view Quick reference tasks to view options on how to save, share, and view poll results.
For further information, visit the Webex Support page for starting a poll in meetings or webinars. 
 
" KB0012722 Webex Webex quick start guide "
Table of Contents
•	Sign up for a Webex Account:
•	What Webex is right for me?
•	How do I join Webex?
•	How do I start a meeting?
•	How can I keep my meeting secure?
•	You can record meetings, webinars and training
•	Webex Best Practices
•	Common issues 
o	Muted
o	Unmuted
•	Get Started with our Webex Meetings Training Video!
 
Sign up for a Webex Account:
1.	Faculty, Staff, and Students can log into the Service Activation page with your NetID and password
2.	Select the option: Rutgers Webex
3.	Click the Activate Services button
4.	After activation, wait 15 minutes before logging into Rutgers Webex
5.	Guests interested in activating a Webex account should refer to the following page regarding guest access to Webex.
What Webex is right for me?
•	Meeting Center – Fully participatory meetings for up to 1000 people.
•	Webinar Center – Up to 10 people presenting to up to 3000 people with chat.
•	Training Center – Up to 10 people presenting to a group of up to 1000 people with break out rooms and enhanced chat back
•	For more information, please visit our Webex Suite Comparison Guide.
How do I join Webex?
If you have scheduled a meeting or been invited to a meeting, you will receive an email with directions on how to join a meeting:
Error! Filename not specified.
How do I start a meeting?
If you are trying to start a meeting, sign in to Rutgers Webex and select the Start a Meeting button on your home screen:
Error! Filename not specified.
How can I keep my meeting secure?
You can learn about keeping your Webex meetings secure on our Best Practices for Secure Webex Meetings page.
You can record meetings, webinars and training
To record in Webex, click the record button (shown below)
Error! Filename not specified.
Please note: It may take up to 24 hrs for your meeting to appear in the list of available recordings
For additional information, please read our documentation on Recording a Meeting
Webex Best Practices
•	Connect a few minutes early, if possible, to allow time for setup.
•	Keep your device (phone, computer, etc.) on mute unless you speak.
•	If you share content from your device during a meeting, it is best practice to share an individual application instead of your entire screen. This will prevent attendees from accidentally seeing private/sensitive data you may have open on your device.
•	For more information on Webex best practices, please visit our Best Practices for Web Conferencing and the Cisco Webex guide.
•	As the host of a meeting, you may want to adjust your participant settings for the meeting. These can be changed throughout the meeting if needed:
o	Mute all participants
o	Turning off entry tones
Common issues
•	Tips for connecting with a slow/weak internet connection
•	If no one can hear you, please ensure you are not muted. You can see if your microphone has been muted at the button on your screen. A red icon means your microphone is currently muted, and a white and green icon means people in the meeting should be able to hear you.
Muted
Error! Filename not specified.
Unmuted
Error! Filename not specified.
•	Webex Global Status
•	FAQ – Go Here
Get Started with our Webex Meetings Training Video!
•	Please note that the training video is restricted to devices on the Rutgers network and, as such, will require the use of the VPN if being accessed from off campus.
•	View the training video. 
" KB0016469 Webex Webex service accounts "
What is a Webex Service Account?
Webex service accounts are for use by departments needing a Webex account that multiple people can access. 
If you need a Webex service account, please contact your Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator to set one up for you. 
How to use a Webex Service Account?
If you are a member of a Webex Service Account, you will need to log in via SSO on the Rutgers Webex site with the following credentials:
Username: serviceaccountname+netid
•	Example: srv-oit-test+abc123
Password: Your NetID password
Additional information for Delegated Administrators
If you are a Delegated Administrator, please visit the Service Account Support Documentation on CAT for additional information and instructions on implementing these accounts.
" KB0012688 Webex Webex Shared Account Basics "
What is a shared Webex account?
A shared Webex account allows multiple people to access and manage an account. These accounts are not associated with an individual's NetID; however, multiple delegates can be set up. Delegates can schedule, host, and record meetings using a shared account. Please note that shared accounts cannot attend a meeting as an attendee. 
How can I get a shared Webex account?
All shared Webex accounts must be associated with a service account in Rutgers Connect. 
You can ask your Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator to activate a shared Webex account for an existing service account or they can make you a new one with a shared Webex account attached. 
What does it mean to be a delegate on a shared Webex account?
If you are not a Rutgers Connect Delegated Administrator, you can still access the information for the shared Webex account by becoming a delegate. A delegate for a Webex account can host and schedule meetings for the shared account. You can schedule meetings by logging into the service account's Webex and scheduling a meeting as the account. 
How can I access recordings on a shared account?
Log into the shared Webex service account to act as the account and access the recordings. Please note that it may take up to 24 hours before new recordings are available from Webex. 
" KB0013122 Webex What is Webex? "
Webex is a set of tools designed for personal and corporate collaboration. It is used to connect to others, typically through the internet, and allows communication with audio, video, text chat, file sharing, whiteboard, and other features. 
" KB0014629 Webex Why can't I login to the new Webex app with my Webex at Rutgers account? "
To log in to the new Webex app, please enter your official Rutgers email address.
You can confirm the email address to be used by going to the Services page and look for the email listed in the Webex box. 
" KB0012450 Zoom "Additional Zoom License Features (Streaming, Webinar, Large Meeting, Translated Caption)" "
The Office of Information Technology can enable additional license features upon request. Review the options for the additional license features that are available.
Zoom Webinars
Zoom Video Webinar allows you to broadcast a Zoom meeting to view-only attendees. As the host or a panelist, you can share your screen, video, and audio in a webinar, while attendees can use the chat or question-and-answer options to interact with the host and panelists.
Read the documentation on Zoom Webinars to see if this license type would be right for you, and find out how to request a Webinar license. Options are available for a 1,000, 3,000 or 10,000 attendee Webinar. 

The University can also enable a Webinar Plus (1000 attendees) license. A Webinar Plus license will provide you with the same features of a Webinar with the additional features of breakout rooms and a green room. Review the Webinar/Webinar Plus Comparison page to determine which license is more appropriate for your event. 
Large Meeting
A Zoom Large Meeting license will allow you to host a meeting with up to 1,000 attendees. With a large meeting license, all attendees can enable their video, audio, screen sharing, and other collaboration features. Due to the limited quantity of licenses, it can not be assigned permanently. Your Meeting capacity will only be increased on the day of your event. 
Live Streaming
Zoom Streaming allows you to livestream a meeting to a customer platform, such as YouTube Live or Facebook Live. During the live event, there will be an approximate 20-second delay between the actual Zoom meeting or webinar and the live stream.
Note that live streaming is only available for Zoom meetings (not Webinars).
Refer to the following Zoom Live Streaming documentation for additional information.
Translated Captions
Zoom Translated Captions provide real-time, automated translation of spoken words during meetings and webinars. Visit the Zoom Translated Caption documentation for more information. 
How do I request an additional license feature?
For access to Webinar 1000, refer to the Zoom Webinars article and contact your local IT support.
For access to Meeting 1000, Webinar 3000, Webinar 10,000, or Live Streaming, request one using the Zoom Webinar Bookings Calendar below:
1.	Open the Zoom Webinar Bookings Calendar.
2.	Select the required License and date of the event. 
3.	Fill out the required questions. 
o	Important Note: Ensure that for the question regarding which account to assign the license to, you follow the format below. Entering values in formats other than those listed below may cause issues with license assignment.   
	For Zoom Webinar 3000, Webinar 10,000, or Live Stream 
	This can only be assigned to a Service (Departmental) Account.
	Enter only the Service Account, for example: srv-oit-eitc
	For Zoom Large Meeting 1000 
	This can be assigned to a personal Zoom account or a Service (Departmental) Account.
	Only enter one of them in the following formats:  
	For a personal Zoom account, enter only the NetID, for example: hr1766
	For a Service Account, enter only the Service Account, for example: srv-oit-eitc
Due to the limited quantity of licenses, they cannot be assigned permanently. The requested license will be assigned the day before the selected date and will be removed the day after.
Note that the Webinar License increase will not affect the attendee link or any settings you have already set on a Webinar. You can schedule an event with an expected large attendee turnout with any-sized Webinar license. On the day of the event, the Webinar increase will only affect the number of attendees who can join your Webinar; no other changes should be noticeable.
" KB0012492 Zoom Deleting Meetings in the Rutgers Zoom Web Client "
Deleting meetings in the Rutgers Zoom Web Client differs from the documentation on the Zoom Help Center.
1.	Sign in to Rutgers Zoom and click on Meetings on the left-hand panel.
2.	You should see the following screen with your meetings listed. When you hover over the meeting with your mouse, the Start and Edit buttons will appear, and your meeting title will be underlined.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Click the meeting title, then scroll to the bottom of the page. The Delete this Meeting option will be located at the bottom left of the screen.

     Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0012540 Zoom How do I log in to my Zoom account? "
You can log into your Rutgers Zoom account from the Rutgers-specific Zoom page, the standard Zoom website, or the Zoom desktop application. Below are the directions on how you can log into the different locations:
Rutgers Zoom page
1.	Navigate to the Rutgers Zoom page. 
2.	Select Sign In. 
3.	Log in with your NetID and NetID password.
Zoom website
1.	Navigate to the standard Zoom website. 
2.	Select the Sign in with SSO option.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Enter rutgers as the Company Domain and click Continue.

     Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Log in with your NetID and NetID password.
Desktop Application
1.	On the Sign In page, select the Sign In with SSO option.

     Error! Filename not specified.
2.	Enter rutgers as the Company Domain and click Continue.

     Error! Filename not specified.
3.	The desktop application will then automatically launch a web browser, directing you to log in with your NetID and NetID password.
" KB0012553 Zoom How to create your Rutgers Zoom account "
Rutgers students, faculty, and staff are entitled to high-quality video and audio support for up to 300 participants with no time limit, customized virtual backgrounds, the ability to add closed captions, and even the use of breakout rooms for up to 50 separate sessions. After activating your Rutgers Zoom account, as noted below, ensure you sign in to Zoom with your NetID to access all these features and more. 
1.	Navigate to the Service Activation page.
2.	Log in with your NetID and NetID password.
3.	Under Zoom, select Activate Service. It may take up to an hour for you to access your Zoom account.
4.	You can access your account by navigating to the Rutgers Zoom homepage and selecting Sign in.
" KB0012558 Zoom How to Join Zoom Meeting with a Cisco Webex System "
1.	Tap the Join Zoom on the touch panel main screen.
2.	Tapping the touch panel will start the system (wake monitors or power the projectors).
3.	Enter only the 10-11 digit meeting ID and press Next.
4.	Select your role in the meeting: Host or Participant 
o	You will be prompted for the Host Key if you are the host. Your host key may be found using a web browser, logging into Rutgers Zoom, and then Profile (under the host key section). 
5.	Both participants and hosts will be prompted to enter the meeting's numeric passcode (if available) and press Join.
6.	You will be joined to your meeting or placed into a Waiting Room while the meeting waits for the host to join.
7.	Press Share to show a presentation to the meeting. 
o	Host security settings may prevent you from sharing
o	You may need to wake the computer if you wish to share it with the meeting
8.	Press End to leave or end the meeting. 
o	If you are the host, this may end the meeting for all participants
Advanced Options
Control Your Meeting Experience (Layouts, Show or hide chat messages, Set mute on entry, etc.
If you are the meeting host via the room system, press the keypad on the main page of the touch panel to complete the functions below.
If you are a Participant, a subset of the options below will be available.
     Error! Filename not specified.
Pressing *1 will allow you to choose the below options. The options will appear on the monitor/projector (not the touch panel).
Commands available as host (after pressing *1)
•	Press 1 to change the video layout. Learn more about changing the video layout.
•	Press 2 to unmute your microphone.
•	Press 3 to raise/lower hand.
•	Press 4 to start or stop your camera feed.
•	Press 5 to start or stop recording. 
o	Note: you will need to be the meeting host to record. Learn more about joining as the meeting host.
•	Press 6 to show the participants list.
•	Press 7 to view the Meeting Host Options. 
o	Note: If the Host Key was not entered before joining the meeting, you will be prompted to enter the Host Key before accessing this menu.
•	Press 8 to enable Language Interpretation to listen to interpretation audio channels and view interpreted text.
•	Press 9 to access the meeting information including the Meeting ID, the meeting passcode, encryption status, and the current data center the device is connected to.
•	Press 0 to view additional options.
•	Press * to close the menu.
For additional information about menu options, please see SIP/H.323 in-meeting menu.
Pausing (Hold) Your Meeting
Disable ALL audio and video to and from the meeting to your room. Press Hold on the main screen of the touch panel to mute your camera, microphone, and speakers.
     Error! Filename not specified.
Press Resume when ready to join the meeting again.
     Error! Filename not specified.
Note: When joining a Zoom meeting from a computer in the same room as a video system, you should not connect your audio to the computer's Zoom instance. Your audio is already captured and delivered to the meeting via the room system.
" KB0012579 Zoom Key tips to avoid Zoombombing and unwanted meeting guests "
Table of Contents
•	Before the Meeting 
o	Passcodes
o	CAPTCHA verification
o	Use a Waiting Room
o	Only allow Rutgers users to join
o	Do not share your Meeting link in public forums
o	Keep Zoom updated
o	Don’t select “Allow participants to join anytime”
o	Don’t use your personal Zoom meeting ID
•	During the Meeting 
o	Manage the meeting with Host Security Controls
o	Lock your session
o	Remove unwanted participants
o	Pause the meeting temporarily to remove a disruptive participant
o	Limit screen sharing
Are you using Zoom for large meetings or classroom instruction? If you are, be sure you’re taking proactive steps to ensure a safe environment for you and your students or other attendees.
Zoom has implemented several security enhancements to ensure safe meetings and prevent instances of Zoombombing — a term referring to intruders disrupting online meetings. Nevertheless, anyone running a meeting has a key role in ensuring the safety and security of their meetings.
Note that Zoom continues to enhance security. Visit the Zoom Privacy and Security webpage for the latest details, and also consider reading Zoom’s blog post on keeping uninvited guests from your Zoom meeting.
Follow these steps to ensure your meetings are secure:
Before the Meeting
Passcodes
Passcodes are automatically enabled and required for any newly scheduled meetings. They are unique to each scheduled meeting and are meant to be shared with your invited meeting participants, along with the meeting ID, so they can gain access. You should not share passcodes publicly by posting them on a public website or by sharing via social media. Zoom offers more guidance on the use of passcodes.
CAPTCHA verification
A brief check (such as selecting images or entering characters) is used to confirm that a participant is a real person. This applies only to a participant who does not join using their Rutgers credentials and whose behavior indicates a potential security risk, as detected by Zoom. This addresses attempts by hackers, bots, and automated tools to access, record, or share online meetings without permission. 
Use a Waiting Room
Enable the Waiting Room feature in your Zoom account. This virtual staging area prevents people from joining a meeting until the host is ready to begin. You can customize the settings to control which participants can join your meeting and when they can join. Learn more about the Waiting Room feature in Zoom.
Only allow Rutgers users to join
When you schedule a meeting through your Zoom account, you can check the Require authentication to join option in the meeting's Security section. If you check this box, only users with a Rutgers Zoom account will be able to join your meeting. Ensure that all participants have a Rutgers account prior to the event. Get more info on how to select this security feature.
Do not share your Meeting link in public forums
Don’t share meeting information on social media accounts, chat rooms, direct messaging platforms, or other public places. Only use an official, secure method of communication to share a meeting link with your invited guests. By publicly sharing your meeting links, you can expose it to intruders. Learn more about how to share your Zoom meetings and webinars securely.
Keep Zoom updated
Don’t assume Zoom will automatically update your desktop or mobile application. Always ensure you are using the latest version of Zoom, which includes security enhancements. Learn how to update Zoom.
Don’t select “Allow participants to join anytime”
In your meeting settings, under Options, ensure that Allow participants to join anytime is unchecked to prevent disruptive visitors from joining before you do.
Don’t use your personal Zoom meeting ID
Zoom’s default choice is to generate a unique Meeting ID when you schedule a meeting. Make sure to choose that setting. If you use your personal meeting room ID instead and share it with others, anyone who knows it can join your personal meeting by adding that ID to the meeting link. If a meeting ID is automatically generated each time, unwanted users won’t have access to it.
During the Meeting
Manage the meeting with Host Security Controls
The host or co-host can quickly enable or disable certain settings from the meeting controls toolbar to secure the meeting and minimize disruption, including locking the meeting, enabling waiting room, and suspending participant activities. To access them, in the meeting controls toolbar, click Host tools. Learn more about how to enable or disable all the available in-meeting security controls.
Lock your session
Sometimes you’ll want to lock your meeting after it’s gotten underway to prevent unexpected visitors. When you do this, participants won’t be able to join, even if they have the password. To lock your meeting while it's in progress, click Security at the bottom of your Zoom window. In the pop-up, click Lock Meeting.
Remove unwanted participants
Hosts are given the ability to remove participants once a meeting is underway. Zoom advises: “From that Participants menu, you can mouse over a participant’s name, and several options will appear, including Remove. Click that to kick someone out of the meeting.” Learn more about managing participants.
Pause the meeting temporarily to remove a disruptive participant
Hosts and co-hosts can temporarily pause their meetings and remove a disruptive participant. Under the Security icon on your Zoom meeting screen, you can click “Suspend Participant Activities.” By doing this, all video, audio, in-meeting chat, annotation, screen sharing, and recording during that time will stop, and Breakout Rooms will end.
Limit screen sharing
Prevent other participants from sharing their screens without individual authorization. Turning this feature off will eliminate unwanted distractions, as the meeting host controls what’s shared. To limit screen sharing, click the ^ arrow next to Share Screen while in the meeting, click Advanced Sharing Options, then under Who can share? choose Host Only. Get more info on these features and others for managing participants.
 
" KB0012629 Zoom Quick start guide for new Zoom users "
Zoom support has published a guide for new users that provides helpful information for those unfamiliar with Zoom.
" KB0012663 Zoom Scheduling Zoom meetings "
Zoom offers multiple ways to schedule meetings. To learn more about scheduled meetings, visit the Zoom article on scheduling meetings.
" KB0012692 Zoom Sharing your Zoom meeting or webinar securely "
To avoid unwanted guests, it is essential to share your meeting information securely. It's recommended that you configure your meeting or webinar with the settings options below to minimize disruptions.
To help ensure security and prevent unwanted guests from attending your meetings or webinars, it is recommended that you avoid sharing meeting links (which contain your passcodes) on social media, websites, or other public forums. By sharing your meeting links publicly, you are increasing the risk of Zoombombing.
Meetings
1.	To begin, navigate to Rutgers Zoom and select Sign in.
2.	Then sign in with your NetID and password, and select the blue Schedule a meeting link on the right side of the screen.
3.	When scheduling the meeting here, select the box labeled Required next to Registration.

      Error! Filename not specified.
o	If you want to edit an existing meeting, after logging in to Rutgers Zoom, you can select Meetings on the left side of your screen and then Edit to access these settings.

      Error! Filename not specified.
4.	Once you save the meeting, you will see a panel at the bottom of the page that displays settings, with the first tab labeled Registration.

     Error! Filename not specified.
5.	There are two options available for you to select from by choosing Edit, depending on your preferred level of security. 
o	Automatically Approved (Not Recommended) means that anyone can register using the registration link, and their registration will be automatically approved. At this point, they will receive the actual link to join the meeting. This can be helpful in that only users who take the time to register and fill out the requested information can obtain the join link. However, as registration is not restricted, it could still allow malicious individuals to access the meeting link.
o	Manually Approve means that the meeting host will need to manually approve each person who registers before they are provided with the link to join the meeting. This requires more energy on the part of the host, as they will need to review each applicant. However, it is the most secure option as all users will be vetted by the host.
o	You can view additional information about protecting your meetings on Zoom's best practices webpage.

     Error! Filename not specified.
o	With either of these settings, instead of the join link, you will now see a registration link that you can copy and share to promote your meeting. This link only goes to the registration page for your event and as such is safer to share than the actual meeting link that allows someone to join.
Webinars (Recommended for public-facing events)
Webinars can be set up with the same configuration as described above, with the option to enable and edit registration settings in the same locations. Learn more about Zoom Webinars.
By default, Zoom webinars have all attendees muted unless they are added as panelists for the webinar.
You can enable registration for your Webinar to enhance its security. To help ensure the webinar is not shared or redistributed, you can add a custom question to the registration page that all attendees must accept. 
Error! Filename not specified.
For further security, you can also disable chat and Q&A features if necessary.
" KB0012713 Zoom Using the Zoom for Outlook Add-In (Web and Desktop) "
The Zoom for Outlook add-in lets you manage scheduling in the Outlook web and desktop apps. Zoom for Outlook will auto-install in both OWA and Outlook after you activate your Zoom account on the Service Activation Page. It may take a couple of hours for this to process through the cloud. Once installed, it allows you to add a Zoom meeting to a new or existing Outlook calendar event.  
How to install the Add-in for Outlook (web)
1.	Navigate to the Home tab of the Outlook ribbon and select Get add-ins 

Error! Filename not specified.
2.	On the page that opens, select Admin-managed from the list to the right.
3.	Locate the Zoom for Outlook Extension in the list of apps, then select Add.

Error! Filename not specified.
Troubleshooting
The rollout of new Outlook Web features can be delayed and is not universally applied. If you do not see the Get Add-ins section on your ribbon, you might not have the option to install add-ins. The steps below may apply to you.
1.	From the Home section on the ribbon, click New mail.
2.	With the new message open, click the Insert section on the ribbon, then look for the Apps icon in the Add-ins section.

Error! Filename not specified.
3.	Select Add apps on the window that pops up. This should bring you over to the app catalog.
4.	Enter zoom in the search bar and select Zoom for Outlook Extension.

Error! Filename not specified.
5.	Click the Add button that appears on the app page once it loads.
Note: These instructions are the Outlook Web App. If you are having issues with the Zoom for Outlook Extension in the Outlook for Office desktop application, make sure you are updated to at least version 2308 due to a bug with DUO, Outlook, and Zoom interactions.
For more information or assistance, please contact your Rutgers Connect Domain Administrators. 
" KB0012716 Zoom Virtual backgrounds in Zoom "
Zoom offers a Virtual Background feature that allows you to display an image or video as your background during a Zoom Meeting. By default, a variety of Rutgers-themed zoom backgrounds are on all Rutgers Zoom accounts.  You can also upload your own images or videos as a virtual background.
For more information, please visit the guide on changing your Zoom Virtual Background image. 
 
" KB0012732 Zoom Zoom account audits "
Who can have a Zoom account?
According to the Office of Information Technology guidelines, only the following classes of people are eligible to have Zoom accounts:
•	Current employees of Rutgers University
•	Current students
•	Professor Emeritus
•	Guests: individuals who are conducting University business and are directly associated with the University, but are not officially on the University's payroll. For example, visiting professors/scholars, members of auxiliary groups, and others who are working on University business or affiliated with the University.
The following groups of people are not automatically eligible to have Zoom accounts:
•	Former employees (including teaching/graduate assistants who may still be students but are not actively working for Rutgers)
•	Employees of other organizations who are performing work at Rutgers
•	Alumni
•	Retirees
Any of the above may be eligible for a guest account if a department or division of Rutgers is willing to sponsor them. Please see the Guest Account page for further information.
Recently re-hired employees who have not yet been added to the RIAS payroll system, and thereby given a Faculty or Staff role, may have their department's payroll person use the Early Employee NetID form to request an early role.
How can I keep my Zoom account?
We determine which accounts should be closed by comparing Zoom usernames with the active roles (e.g., Faculty, or Staff) of usernames listed in the University's Open Registry (OR) service, which is used as the basis for the Rutgers Online Directory. The OR may have some information which needs to be corrected.
If you have received an account closure notice, and you believe that this is in error please find the group you belong to in the appropriate subsection below (Current Employees, Guests, Students, Others) and follow the instructions there.
Current Employees
You may not be listed in the OR as a current employee. To check this, go to the Search for People tool and search for your name. Review each result if you get more than one. If your name does not appear, contact your department’s Human Resources person.
When your entry appears, review the information there. If it is incorrect, contact your department's Human Resources person.
After your department’s Human Resources person has corrected your record, your department’s Rutgers Delegated Administrator can verify that your account is no longer subject to closure.
Students
You may not be listed in the OR as a current student. To check this, go to the Search for People tool and search for your name. Review each result if you get more than one. If your name does not appear, please inquire about your registration via One Stop.
When your entry appears, review the information there. If it is incorrect, please inquire about your registration via One Stop.
Guests
If you are affiliated with Rutgers but not actually employed full-time by Rutgers, you may request a guest account. Have a sponsor at the department you are working with go to the Guest Account site, and submit a request for you, which will be sent to our Accounts Office for processing.
Every year, you must renew your guest account. You will be notified when the time to renew your account arrives (30 days prior to the expiration of the account).
Your Rutgers Delegated Administrator can assist your sponsor with submitting a Guest Account request and creating your Zoom account, if necessary.
Others
If you do not fit into any of the above categories, you may want to try contacting a department at Rutgers related to your work and ask if they would be willing to sponsor a Guest account for you.
We have no mechanism for people no longer associated with Rutgers to pay a fee and thus keep their accounts. These people should be able to pay for a complete account on various video conference providers from various web services. Rutgers cannot recommend one such group over another.
What is the typical account audit timeline?
Once an account is found to be ineligible for Zoom:
•	On day one, i.e., same day found to be ineligible: The account is sent an email notification.
•	On day seven, i.e., approximately one week later: The account is locked out of Zoom.
•	On day thirty-five, i.e., approximately 5 weeks later: The account is deleted from Zoom.
Note: If the account is found to be eligible for Zoom at any time before deletion, the account will exit the audit.
What should I do before the account is closed?
If you will be losing your Zoom account, you may want to take some of the following steps.
•	Contact the IT staff in your department to determine the correct protocol for the data (recordings, upcoming meetings) in your account. Departments that handle PHI or other sensitive data may have procedures put in place for security.
•	You will lose access to your Zoom recordings once your account is deleted, so you will want to save them to another location. Please contact your local IT staff to assist with this process.
What happens after the account is closed?
After your account is closed, you will lose access to your Zoom account.
Approximately 4 weeks after your account is closed, your Zoom account will be deleted.
When an account is deleted, you will no longer be able to access Zoom services.
For further assistance
If you have questions about any of the above, you can send an e-mail to help@oit.rutgers.edu or contact the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0017064 Zoom Zoom AI Companion "
Zoom AI Companion, a generative AI digital assistant, delivers powerful, real-time capabilities to help you improve productivity and work together more effectively. You will see AI Companion throughout the Zoom platform, with features currently available for Meetings, Chat, and Recordings. Follow the steps below to enable the various AI features for your meetings. 
Enabling AI Features
Not all AI Companion features are enabled by default. You'll need to log into your settings and ensure any available ones are turned on. 
1.	Go to the Rutgers Zoom Website and log in with your NetID and password. 
2.	Click Settings. 
3.	Go to the AI Companion tab. 
4.	Enable the AI features you want to use for your meetings. 
For more information on the features and functionality of the Zoom AI Companion, visit Zoom's Getting Started with AI guide. 
Available AI Features
Zoom at Rutgers has access to a select number of AI features available through AI Companion. Not all AI Companion features are available due to licensing agreements and HIPAA and PHI information restrictions. Some features may need to be enabled in your account settings before they will work in a meeting.
Stay focused and get caught up
You can ask AI Companion questions like, “Can you explain the debate about that last topic and turn it into a product spec doc?” or “What was the compiled feedback shared by the team?” to summarize any part of the meeting you may have missed.
After Meetings
Continue to ask questions about the content discussed or refer back to conversations with AI Companion during the meeting within the side panel.
Meeting summary
Generate a summary of the meeting that is sent after the meeting has ended based on the share options.
Generate next steps
AI Companion can automatically turn the next steps in a meeting summary into Zoom Tasks. 
Smart recording
Cloud recordings can include highlights, summaries, smart chapters, next steps, and a meeting coach.
View source citations
When AI Companion gives you a response, view details on which sources it was generated from. 
Custom avatars for Clips
Custom avatars for Zoom Clips help you scale video clip creation by using a personalized AI-generated avatar to create clips with a transcript. You will record yourself to create your personal avatar, and the avatar video clip will sync with the audio generated from the transcript, with built-in safeguards to protect against misuse for deepfake creation. 
Transparency and controls
Easily enable and disable AI Companion with one click in a meeting at any time and see when it is being used with clear indicators in your meeting.
This feature is available on a per-meeting basis. You have the option to enable or disable AI Companion in every meeting. 
Features not supported
The following features are not supported:
•	AI connections to third-party apps: Adding connections to external data sources such as Microsoft 365 or Google is not permitted.
•	Team Chat
•	Whiteboards
•	Docs
" KB0012733 Zoom Zoom closed captioning and live transcription "
Zoom offers automated and manual closed captioning options that provide subtitles for video conferencing. To learn more about closed captioning, visit the Zoom article on managing manual captions, or how to enable and then manage automated captions. 
" KB0012734 Zoom Zoom focus mode "
This feature gives the host and co-hosts a view of all participants’ videos without other participants seeing each other. For more information, visit the Zoom article on using focus mode.
" KB0012735 Zoom Zoom migration process "
If you had previously created a personal Zoom account with a Rutgers email address, please contact the OIT Help Desk to assist you with transitioning your Zoom account into the Rutgers Zoom instance.
After you have submitted a request, the Help Desk will invite you to the Rutgers Zoom instance.
You will receive an invitation similar to the example below:
 
    Error! Filename not specified.
After selecting Approve the Request, you will be asked to log into your Zoom account.
Free Accounts
If you have a free account, please select I Acknowledge and Switch.
 
    Error! Filename not specified.
Paid Accounts
If you have a paid account, you will see an additional screen. Please select Join the Account if ready to join the Rutgers instance.
 
Error! Filename not specified.
 
If you are the account owner for a paid account, you should then see your account balance. When asked how to refund the balance, please select Refund to me.
 
Error! Filename not specified.
 
You will then see a screen stating your account is being switched.
 
Error! Filename not specified.
 
This is followed by a screen stating your account has been moved.
 
Error! Filename not specified.
After you have accepted the invitation, the Help Desk will have to enable your account. You can contact the OIT Help Desk to have your account enabled once you have accepted the invite.
" KB0012736 Zoom Zoom Service Accounts "
What is a Zoom Service Account?
Zoom service accounts are for use by departments that need a Zoom account that multiple people can use and access. These service accounts will come with a standard meeting size of 300. They can optionally have a Zoom Webinar size of 1000, which can be obtained by coordinating with your Rutgers Connect Domain Administrator once created.
If you need a Zoom service account, contact your Rutgers Connect Domain Administrator.
How to use a Zoom Service Account?
If you are a member of a Zoom Service Account, you will need to log in via SSO (rutgers.zoom.us) with the following credentials:
•	Username: serviceaccountname+netid 
o	Example: srv-oit-test+abc123
•	Password: Your NetID password
Additional information for Domain Admins
If you are a Domain Admin, visit the Zoom Service Account Support Documentation on CAT for additional information and instructions on implementing these accounts.
Note that the Zoom Webinar license is removed from Service Accounts if it is not used for an extended period of time. However, it can be re-enabled for the Service Account by contacting your Rutgers Connect Domain Administrator, who can coordinate the request that it be added back on. 
" KB0012737 Zoom Zoom Webinars "
What is a Zoom Webinar?
Zoom Video Webinar allows you to broadcast a Zoom meeting to view-only attendees. As the host or a panelist, you can share your screen, video, and audio in a webinar, while attendees can use the chat or question and answer options to interact with the host and panelists.
Webinars can require preregistration—with the option for the host to add custom registration questions—or registration can be turned off for attendees to join by simply clicking a link at the time of the webinar. Webinars can be held once, can recur in a series, or can be the same session held multiple times.
Webinars do not support breakout rooms by default. A separate Events or Sessions license would need to be purchased in advance for an account to utilize breakout rooms on a Webinar. 
Zoom has more information on getting started with Webinars.
What is the difference between a Zoom Meeting and a Zoom Webinar?
Comparison Table
 	Meeting	Webinar
Description	Zoom meetings are ideal for hosting more interactive sessions where you’ll want to have lots of audience participation or break your session into smaller groups.	Think of webinars like a virtual lecture hall or auditorium. Webinars are ideal for large audiences or public events. Typically, webinar attendees do not interact with one another. Although Zoom offers options for you to engage more with your attendees, your average webinar typically features one or a few speakers addressing an audience.
Best used for	Small to large groups (2+ participants) for personal meetings, sales meetings, and training sessions	Large events and public broadcasts (50+ attendees) such as town halls, quarterly updates, and educational lectures
Who is eligible for a Zoom Webinar license?
Zoom Webinar licenses can only be assigned to Zoom Service Accounts, as they are not available for personal Zoom accounts. Service accounts enable multiple users to access recordings and registration information related to your Zoom Webinars. Faculty, staff members, and guests can contact their Rutgers Connect Domain Administrator. Students can work with a faculty member to obtain access to a Zoom Service Account, which allows them to schedule webinars.
How do I request a Webinar License?
Three different sizes of Webinar Licenses are available:
•	Webinar 1000 (Max attendee limit 1000)
•	Webinar 3000 (Max attendee limit 3000)
•	Webinar 10,000 (Max attendee limit 10,000)
Webinar 1,000
You can request a Zoom Service Account from your Rutgers Connect Domain Administrator. Once your Domain administrator has created your account, they can request that a Webinar 1000 license be added to it. 
Due to the limited quantity of licenses, Webinar 1000 license usage will be reviewed quarterly. Webinar 1000 licenses will be removed to free up the license for others if:
•	If no webinar has occurred in the last 3 months prior, 
•	And, no events are scheduled for the next 3 months in the future.
However, it may be re-enabled for the service account by contacting your Rutgers Connect Domain Administrator, who can then coordinate getting it added back to your account. 
Webinar 3,000 and 10,000
Due to the limited quantity of licenses, Webinar 3,000 and 10,000 licenses can not be assigned permanently. If you are in need of a larger license, request one using the Zoom Webinar Bookings Calendar below:
1.	Open the Zoom Webinar Bookings Calendar.
2.	Select the required License and date of the event. 
3.	Fill out the required questions. 
o	Important Note: Ensure that for the question regarding which account to assign the license to, you follow the format below. Entering values in formats other than those listed below may cause issues with license assignment.   
	For Zoom Webinar 3000, Webinar 10,000, or Live Stream 
	This can only be assigned to a Service (Departmental) Account.
	Enter only the Service Account formatted as, example: srv-oit-eitc
	For Zoom Large Meeting 1000 
	This can be assigned to a personal Zoom account or a Service (Departmental) Account.
	Only enter one of them in the following formats:  
	For a personal Zoom account, enter only the NetID, example: hr1766
	For a Service Account, enter only the Service Account, example: srv-oit-eitc
The requested license will be assigned the day before the selected date and will be removed the day after.
Note that the Webinar License increase will not affect the attendee link or any settings you have already set on a Webinar. You can schedule an event with an expected large attendee turnout with any-sized Webinar license. On the day of the event, the Webinar increase will only affect the number of attendees who can join your Webinar; no other changes should be noticeable.
" KB0017498 Zoom Zoom Workplace app supported operating systems "
The Zoom desktop app no longer supports Windows 7 or Windows 8 devices. Visit Zoom's list of supported operating systems for more information on what is currently supported. 
" KB0013136 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ Are there concerns with Zoom and security? "
Rutgers is constantly working with Zoom to ensure it will be a safe web conferencing solution for our community. Zoom has addressed previous security concerns and continues to make improvements for users.
For additional information about the best practices for privacy and security, please visit Zoom's Trust Center.
" KB0013144 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ Can I attend two separate Zoom meetings at the same time? "
No, you cannot attend two separate Zoom meetings simultaneously on the same account.
Your Rutgers Zoom license only allows you to attend one meeting at a time.
" KB0013151 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ Can I change my personal meeting ID (PMI) in Zoom? "
Unfortunately, you are not able to change your personal meeting ID.
" KB0013147 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ Can I generate a Zoom registration report and a poll result? "
If your Zoom meeting has registration or polling enabled, you can generate a registration or polling report.
Login to Rutgers Zoom, and on the left side of your screen, go to Reports > Meeting > Registration Report or Poll Report.
" KB0013143 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ Can I login to the Zoom Workplace app on my laptop and desktop? "
Zoom only allows being logged in from one instance of each device. If you sign into an additional device while logged into another device of the same type, you will be logged out automatically on the first device. 
" KB0013152 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ Can I use Zoom marketplace applications and plugins? "
Rutgers Office of Information and Technology has authorized certain Zoom-authored plugins. However, no Zoom marketplace applications will be approved at this time.
If you are unsure if you can use certain applications or plugins, please contact your Departmental IT Staff or the OIT Help Desk. 
" KB0013153 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ How can I add a passcode to an existing Zoom meeting? "
1.	Sign into Rutgers Zoom and select Meetings in the navigation bar on the left side of the screen.
2.	Choose the meeting to which you want to add a passcode and select Edit.
3.	Next to Security, select the box for Passcode.
4.	In the field provided, enter a meeting passcode no more than 10 characters long.
5.	Select Save at the bottom of the page.
6.	Share the new meeting details with your participants or click Copy the invitation and paste them into an email to your meeting invitees.
" KB0013154 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ How do I allow only Rutgers Zoom users into my meeting? "
To enhance security, when you schedule a Rutgers Zoom meeting, you can check a box that says Require authentication to join. This means only participants with Rutgers accounts can enter your meeting. Choosing this feature can also help manage attendance during your classes. If you enable this feature and a participant does not log in with a Rutgers Zoom account, the participant will not be able to attend your meeting.
Students are not automatically enrolled in a Rutgers Zoom account. If you check this setting, please make sure they have signed up for a Rutgers Zoom account before the meeting.
     Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0013156 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ How do I enable and control who should go in a waiting room for my Zoom meetings? "
1.	To enable waiting rooms for your meetings, navigate to Rutgers Zoom.
2.	Click Sign In and enter your NetID and NetID password.
3.	Select Settings from the menu options on the left, and then Meeting.
4.	Select Security from the menu options on the left. 
o	From this menu, you can enable Waiting Room by turning the toggle on as shown below.

Error! Filename not specified.
o	Additionally, you can control who is put in the waiting room by clicking on Edit Options under Waiting Room Options. If you select Users not in your Account, Rutgers users will be allowed to join your meeting directly, and other users will be put in the waiting room.
Error! Filename not specified.
o	Lastly, you can choose the option Users who are not in your account and not part of the allowed domains and manually enter domains for users who you would like to be able to join the meeting without being directed to the waiting room, as shown below. You can enter domains in the format *.site.edu, for example, *.rutgers.edu would allow anyone with a login address that ends in @rutgers.edu.

 Error! Filename not specified.
" KB0013145 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ How do I manage breakout rooms in Zoom? "
Breakout rooms allow you to split your Zoom Meeting in up to 50 separate sessions. To learn more about managing breakout rooms in Zoom, visit Zoom's guide on managing breakout rooms. 
Zoom Webinars do not support breakout rooms by default. A separate Events or Sessions license would need to be purchased in advance for an account to utilize breakout rooms on a Webinar. 
" KB0013146 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ How do I pre-assign participants to Zoom breakout rooms when scheduling a meeting? "
You can only pre-assign participants who have Zoom accounts (internal or external Zoom users). When pre-assigning participants using the web portal, you can only pre-assign internal Rutgers Zoom users. To pre-assign participants who are external Rutgers Zoom users, import a CSV file.
To learn more, visit Zoom's guide on pre-assigning meeting participants to breakout rooms.
" KB0013155 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ How do I set my Zoom meeting to computer audio only? "
When scheduling, you can check the box in the Audio section that says Computer Audio. This will force your participants to use their computer microphones instead of allowing them to use a telephone to call into your Zoom meeting. 
" KB0013544 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ How far in advance can I schedule a Zoom meeting or webinar? "
You can schedule a Zoom meeting or webinar a maximum of 365 days into the future. This also applies to repeating meetings, which will be repeated for a maximum of 365 days.
" KB0013547 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ How far in advance can I schedule a Zoom meeting or webinar? "
You can schedule a meeting or webinar a maximum of 365 days into the future. This applies to repeating meetings as well, which will be repeated for a maximum of 365 days.
" KB0013141 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ How much cloud recording storage do I have on my Zoom account? "
Zoom recordings will be deleted after 180 days. Alternatively you can record on your own computer and share content via the Kaltura video platform.
" KB0015950 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ Invalid Zoom Meeting ID "
If you see an invalid meeting ID message when trying to start your meeting, it is likely that the meeting ID has expired or was deleted. Hosts can check whether the meeting ID appears on the Meetings page of the Zoom web portal. 
If it is a recurring meeting, ensure the Recurring meeting box is checked from the meeting details screen.
Meeting participants can join by ID in the Zoom web portal: select Join, then enter the ID.
Deleted meetings can be recovered up to one week after deletion. Recovered meetings will also restore invitations, links, and meeting IDs.
However, meetings permanently deleted from the trash cannot be recovered.
Expiration dates for meeting IDs
A non-recurring meeting ID will expire 30 days after the meeting is scheduled. If you restart the same meeting ID within those 30 days, it will remain valid for another 30 days. You can restart the same meeting ID as often as you would like before it expires.
A recurring meeting ID will expire 365 days after the last occurrence of the meeting. You can reuse the meeting ID for future occurrences.
Scheduled meetings can be started at any time before the scheduled time. The links will not expire or become invalid unless it is past the 30-day period for a non-recurring meeting, have not been used for over 365 days for a recurring meeting, or have been deleted from your Zoom account. An instant meeting link will expire once the meeting ends.
" KB0013142 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ Is Zoom compatible with Cisco hardware for web conferencing in Rutgers conference rooms? "
Yes, Zoom is compatible with Cisco hardware for web conferencing in Rutgers conference rooms. 
" KB0013140 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ Is Zoom for Rutgers HIPAA-compliant? "
Yes, Zoom for Rutgers complies with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA).
" KB0013135 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ What are some benefits of Zoom? "
Some benefits of Zoom include:
•	High-quality video and audio support for up to 300 participants for students and 500 participants for faculty and staff.
•	Ability to customize your own virtual backgrounds during a Zoom meeting.
•	Easy-to-use tools such as Whiteboard and Annotate for sharing and collaborating with others.
•	Breakout rooms let you split your Zoom meeting into up to 50 separate sessions.
•	Ability to add closed captions and subtitles to Zoom meetings, recordings, and webinars.
" KB0013139 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ What if I already have an existing Zoom account? "
If you are trying to activate your Rutgers Zoom account but currently have an existing Zoom account using a Rutgers email address, please contact the OIT Help Desk for assistance. 
" KB0013150 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ What if I have specific questions about my Zoom account? "
If specific questions arise regarding assistance or accessing Zoom, please contact your Departmental IT Staff or the OIT Help Desk.
" KB0013138 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ What other web conferencing and collaboration tools are available at Rutgers? "
Yes, in addition to Zoom, Rutgers continues to offer Webex and Microsoft Teams to faculty, staff, and students as alternative web conferencing and collaboration solutions.
" KB0013545 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ When can I start or join a scheduled Zoom meeting? "
A non-recurring meeting ID will expire 30 days after the meeting is scheduled. If you restart the same meeting ID within those 30 days, it will remain valid for another 30 days. You can restart the same meeting ID as often as you would like before it expires.
A recurring meeting ID will expire 365 days after the meeting is started on the last occurrence. You can re-use the meeting ID for future occurrences.
Scheduled meetings can be started at any time before the scheduled time. The links will not expire or become invalid unless it is past the 30 days for a non-recurring meeting, have not been used for over 365 days for a recurring meeting, or have been deleted from your Zoom account. An instant meeting link will expire as soon as the meeting is over.
This information can be found on the notes page for scheduling zoom meetings. 
" KB0013546 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ Why are my Zoom meetings on my Rutgers Connect calendar not updated? "
When you are updating an existing calendar item, you need to make sure to update the Zoom plugin, as it does not happen automatically, by hitting the update button at the bottom of the Zoom calendar item. It is also helpful to verify if the meeting is updated by viewing it on the Rutgers Zoom site.
" KB0018072 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ Why does my Zoom meeting have a 40 minute time limit? "
If your Zoom meetings keep timing out after 40 minutes, you may not be logged into your Rutgers Zoom account.
Rutgers students, faculty, and staff are entitled to high-quality video and audio support for up to 300 participants with no time limit, customized virtual backgrounds, the ability to add closed captions, and even the use of breakout rooms for up to 50 separate sessions. 
Using your personal email address or ScarletMail account when creating a Zoom account doesn’t necessarily mean you have activated your Rutgers Zoom account. After following the instructions to activate your Rutgers Zoom account, ensure you are signed into Zoom using your NetID@rutgers.edu email address to access these features.
Exercise your Rutgers Zoom account to its fullest potential by avoiding issues like these. Go further by learning how to protect your meetings from Zoombombing to have uninterrupted Zoom access.
" KB0019320 Zoom at Rutgers FAQ Zoom AI Features and Privacy "
Table of Contents
•	AI Companion 
o	How to enable
o	AI Privacy
o	Reccomendations
•	Automated Captions (Live Transcript/Closed Captions) 
o	How to enable
o	AI Privacy 
o	Things to note
o	Recommendations
•	Manual Captions 
o	How to enable
o	AI Privacy 
•	Zoom AI Best Practices
•	Data used for AI features
•	Additional Information
For Rutgers-hosted Zoom meetings, the following AI features are available with the noted privacy implications. If you join a Zoom meeting hosted by someone outside of Rutgers, please be aware that you have no control over how they handle your participation or the data shared during the meeting.
AI Companion
Zoom at Rutgers has access to a select number of AI features available through AI Companion. Not all AI Companion features are available due to licensing agreements and HIPAA and PHI information restrictions. Some features may need to be enabled in your account settings before they will work in a meeting.
Included features: 
•	Stay focused and get caught up: You can ask AI Companion questions like, “Can you explain the debate about that last topic and turn it into a product spec doc?” or “What was the compiled feedback shared by the team?” to summarize any part of the meeting you may have missed.
•	After Meetings: Continue to ask questions about the content discussed or refer back to conversations with AI Companion during the meeting within the side panel.
•	Meeting summary: Generate a summary of the meeting that is sent after the meeting has ended based on the share options.
•	Generate next steps: AI Companion can automatically turn the next steps in a meeting summary into Zoom Tasks. 
•	Smart recording: Cloud recordings can include highlights, summaries, smart chapters, next steps, and a meeting coach.
•	View source citations: When AI Companion gives you a response, view details on which sources it was generated from. 
•	Custom avatars for Clips: Custom avatars for Zoom Clips help you scale video clip creation by using a personalized AI-generated avatar to generate clips from transcripts. You will record yourself to create your personal avatar, and the avatar video clip will sync with audio generated from the transcript, with built-in safeguards to prevent misuse for deepfake creation. 
The following features are not supported:
•	AI connections to third-party apps: Adding connections to external data sources such as Microsoft 365 or Google is not permitted.
•	Team Chat
•	Whiteboards
•	Docs
How to enable
These features are available on a per-meeting basis. You can easily enable and disable AI Companion with one click in a meeting at any time, and see when it is being used with clear indicators in your meeting.
Not all AI Companion features are enabled by default. You'll need to log in to your settings and ensure any available ones are turned.
1.	Go to the Rutgers Zoom Website and log in with your NetID and password. 
2.	Click Settings. 
3.	Go to the AI Companion tab. 
4.	Enable the AI features you want to use for your meetings. 
Learn more about how to utilize the AI Companion features during the meeting. 
For more information on the features and functionality of the Zoom AI Companion, visit Zoom's Getting Started with AI guide.
AI Privacy
AI Companion processes all spoken audio (and optionally chat) to generate summaries. Zoom uses its own AI models and may also use Amazon Bedrock-hosted models (including Anthropic's Claude), and OpenAI models without routing audio data directly to external model providers. Zoom maintains technical control over this processing. 
Zoom does not use any customer audio, video, chat, screen sharing, attachments, or other communications-like content (such as poll results and reactions) to train Zoom’s or its third-party AI models.
After providing the AI service, Zoom may retain customer content for up to 30 days for support and debugging. AI meeting summaries are similarly retained and should be exported if long-term access is needed.
Reccomendations
Do not use AI Companion in meetings involving FERPA-protected student records, HIPAA-regulated health information, HR/personnel matters, or confidential research data. 
Summaries are AI-generated and may contain errors, misattributed statements, or inaccurate content. Before sharing, hosts should verify accuracy, correct errors, and remove any personally identifiable information that may have been captured. 
Automated Captions (Live Transcript/Closed Captions)
Automated Captions, also called Live Transcription, provide real-time text display of spoken words during a live meeting. They appear either as subtitle overlays at the bottom of the meeting window or as a scrollable side-panel transcript, updated in real time with speaker names and timestamps. This is AI-powered and requires no human captioner.
How to enable
Learn how to enable or disable Automated Captions. 
You have the option to restrict starting Automated Captions during your meetings to the Host; or Host and Co-Host. Participants can still request to start Automated Captions, but the Host must approve the request. 
Learn how to start Automated Captions during your meeting. 
Once the host enables Automated Captions, all participants can see captions either as subtitle overlays or as a full scrollable transcript in a side panel, with timestamps and speaker names. Participants may save this to their device during the meeting by clicking Save Transcript at the bottom of the transcript panel. The transcript file is a verbatim record of everything said and is fully searchable.
Learn how to save the full transcript during a meeting. 
If the meeting is recorded to the cloud, the transcript is also available after the recording is processed and appears alongside the cloud recording as a .txt or .vtt file.
Learn how to manage your Automated Captions after the meeting. 
AI Privacy 
Zoom's AI speech engines process audio in real time to generate text within Zoom's infrastructure. You can also enable the option to allow Automated captions on device, which lets participants' Zoom applications on their local devices process the Automated Captions.
The live caption text exists only within the session unless a participant saves it locally. If Save Captions is enabled, any participant can download a verbatim transcript to their personal device without notifying the host. This may include sensitive discussions, personal information, or confidential university matters.
Learn how to enable or disable participants' ability to Save Captions. 
No server-side retention of live caption text after the session ends, unless a cloud recording with a transcript is created. 
Things to note
Automated captions do not, by themselves, qualify as an ADA accommodation. If ADA accommodations are required, CART (Communication Access Realtime Translation) services are recommended. Rutgers students with this need should contact Rutgers Access and Disability Resources (RADR) office, which coordinates ASL interpretation and CART captioning on Zoom.
Participants will only see the transcript from the point at which they joined; they cannot see any prior captioning or conversation.
Recommendations
Disable Save Captions, especially for sensitive meetings, including HR discussions, disciplinary matters, student advising involving FERPA-protected information, or health-related conversations.
Manual Captions
Zoom allows the host to assign a designated Closed Captioner to a meeting participant who manually types captions as the session progresses. This option is useful for CART services or specialized accessibility scenarios where machine accuracy is insufficient. The host assigns this role in-meeting under the Live Transcript menu.
How to enable
Learn how to enable Manual Captions for your meetings and manage them during your meeting. 
AI Privacy 
Since this is only a human captioner typing what they hear, caption text exists only within the session. No automated transmission to AI systems occurs. This is the most privacy-preserving captioning option. No record of manual transcriptions are saved after the meeting. 
Zoom AI Best Practices
The following are recommended when utilizing AI features in Zoom:
•	Notify participants before enabling AI or recording features.
•	Disable Save Captions for sensitive meetings.
•	Do not use AI Companion for FERPA or HIPAA-related discussions. 
•	Review and edit AI summaries before sharing.
•	Store sensitive recordings in Box, not Zoom Cloud.
•	Use the Waiting Room for all meetings.
•	Assign a host when scheduling on behalf of others.
•	Be aware of what settings you have enabled, and what participants can do.
Data used for AI features
Zoom AI Features and Privacy Settings
Feature	Data used for feature	Data Leaves Meeting?	Participant Can Save?	OK for Sensitive Meetings?
Automated Captions (live)	Meeting audio for speaker diarization, speech-to-text data	No (unless saved)	Yes, if the host allows	Yes — disable Save Captions
Manual Captioner	Captioner input	No	No	Yes
Full Transcript Panel	Meeting audio for speaker diarization, speech-to-text data	No (unless saved)	Yes, if the host allows	With caution
Cloud Recording + Transcript	Meeting audio for speaker diarization, speech-to-text data	Yes - Zoom Cloud	No (host controls)	Notify participants
AI Meeting Summary	Speech-to-text data, screen-shared content via OCR, and in-meeting chat messages	Yes - Zoom and 3rd party AI	No (host only)	Not for FERPA/HIPAA
Smart Recording	Cloud recording and speech-to-text data	Yes - Zoom Cloud	No	Not for FERPA/HIPAA
In-Meeting Q&A / Catch-Up	Speech-to-text data and user question prompts	No	No	Not for FERPA/HIPAA
Additional Information
Visit Zoom's AI Security and Privacy Whitepaper for more information. 
"

